	      Now if you have sons would you want them to play baseball too?
      
      
         I would, I definitely would.
         And I would probably encourage them to come down in the NC area to play baseball.
         It's been a great experience for me.
      
      
         What was, what did you like best about playing?
         Well it was always an escape for me.
         Kept me, uh, motivated.
         Kept me out of trouble.
         
         which was the big thing, and, um, I like being competitive, I know my fianc�e is very competitive as well.
         So, I know if we do have a little boy, even a little girl, I know there might be a good chance of being some good athletes in the family.
         So, uh, yeah.
         I'll definitely want them to pursue baseball, but, by all means, it's probably going to be whatever they want to do.
         I don't want to force them or anything so--
      
      
         So where do you see yourself in about 10 years from now?
      
      
         In about ten years, definitely in the NC area.
         Um, the beach is real appealing.
         If not maybe Charlotte, probably down by Wilmington or some sort.
         Definitely like to have two children.
         And, um, have done a lot of things by that point.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Done a lot of traveling with my, my wife and seen a lot of things.
         In 10 years from now, start setting some sort of, ah, foundation for the family we're raising, in some sort of steady home.
         And no more making big trips out to CO, or making a big move for the company, or something of that nature.
         So, I think, uh, we should be doing OK in about 10 years.
      
   

   
   
      
         Um.
         Hi, I'm Laura Ragonese, and I'm currently living in Huntersville, NC.
         I've been there for about two and a half years, but I grew up in a small town in Connecticut and I basically came down here um, just first for the University, but then I landed a job, so I've been staying here working.
         Um, and I happened upon Charlotte and Huntersville area just on the Internet.
         I was looking for a city down south and I kind of wanted an idea as to something new, something upcoming, and from what I understand, Charlotte is a quite growing city.
         So, it seemed like a really good place to come to, and so far I really like it.
         Um, I'm going to tell you a story about a trip I took with my sisters.
         Um, I have four sisters and we're all about a year and a half apart and we're going to visit my grandmother who lives in Cape Coral, in Florida.
         So, I think it was maybe four years ago, four, four, or five years ago and um, we left, actually just three of my sisters and I went.
         And um, we left Connecticut and we were driving down, we were driving in my sister Diane's um, Ford Escort, which she'd had for about a year and a half and uh, we were driving and everything, anticipating good weather and I think we were just about right outside of Savannah, GA and I was driving the car and her car is standard and um, the clutch went out on the car.
         So, I was driving and I said to my sister Diane, "Di, I don't think, I think something is wrong with the clutch," I said, "Because it seems to be on the floor," meaning it, it wasn't, didn't feel like it was connected.
         And I um, she said, "Pull off the side of the road," so I pulled off into this um, I guess it was like a rest stop.
         But, there weren't any pay phones, a lot of truckers, few people, whatever, so we stopped and definitely the clutch was broken.
         So, my sister has a CB and so we tried to radio some people, that didn't work.
         This woman came through with a cell phone, so we called for help and this
         "honky-tonk" kind of guy,
         I don't know where he was from, he was operating basically his machine shop or his repair shop right out of this truck.
         He didn't have a license plate on his truck
         .
         He didn't have a decal saying where he worked or anything.
         So, it was kind of shady.
         But, so, it was about three or four o'clock, anyway, so we sat on the curb and waited for this guy.
         He comes first and assesses the situation and said, "I think that your clutch cable snapped and it's not really a big deal, we can rig it up, so you guys can get to where you got to go, you just have to get it fixed."
         So fine, so he leaves.
         And we flag down an officer and he comes and he tries and tells us, he proceeds to tell us there was a black belt, wait the murder belt?
         I don't know
         this guy was crazy, this cop, he said that we were in a really bad section of where people were like murdered and killed and like thrown like behind like the rest stop.
         So my sisters are sitting on the curb thinking, "Oh, my God, we're going to die, right?"
         And not to mention it's getting later in the day and it was about, I think it was late March, early April, it had to be.
         But anyways, so the sun had started descending, going down.
         Anyways, this guy comes and he fix, he must have left about four times, I don't know where he was going, but I don't know where his shop was, but every time he comes back with some crazy thing and he eventually fixed our car with some uh, chicken wire, I think he rigged it up with.
         We have no idea
         .
         Anyways, we got in the car and it got us to Savannah, GA.
         And we arrived in Savannah, um, it was Mardi Gras, was it Mar, no it was St. Patrick's Day and let me tell you there were some crazy things going on.
         The woman, the desk attendant, the hotel we checked in well, first we couldn't find any hotels, because it was booked, apparently Savannah is like really crazy around St. Patrick's Day.
         So, um, we got there and this woman had long green nails on, it was kind of crazy.
         Um, she was like OH, you guys came for the perfect time, it's um St. Patrick's Day and we're having parties and parties, and all this stuff.
         So, I couldn't go out, I think I was like 19 years old and you have to be like 21, uh, 18 in some clubs and 21 to drink, and we decided not to go out, considering everything that had happened that day.
         So, we woke up the next morning, we went down and we drove down to FL.
         I think it took us in all about 23 hours, maybe 24, because she, Cape Coral is on the West Coast.
         So, we got there and my grandma is of course excited to see us and we unpacked our stuff and everything and we proceeded to lay out in the driveway, and my younger sister Nancy, um, being her first time in the sun, decided she didn't want to use sunscreen, because she really wanted to get a good suntan, she got a good suntan, she got a sunburn.
         After we yelled at her for about three hours she decided to slap some sunburn on the back of her, suntan lotion on the back of her leg, and it left a nice white print, like hand print on the back of her leg, and the rest of her got sun burnt.
         So, then we basically um, we visited with our grandmother and I have some step family that lives down there, so one night we went out with our cousin Teddy
         and we uh, went out to some clubs with him and everything.
         Um, and then we went to, let's see For, I want to say it's Fort Myers Beach I think, the beach is on the West Coast, we went down, it's about an hour from my grandma's and uh, it's a really nice beach, it's uh, was pretty warm that day.
         I think, we all got some color, but they were having an epidemic of red tide and so all the fish were washing up on the shore and um, luck be it, since we were having such a good time um, Allison, Nancy, and I decide we are going to take a walk along the beach and there were fish strewn everywhere so we were careful not to step on them.
         However, Allison wasn't paying attention and she stepped on a fish and it got a barb, which is one of it's defense mechanisms, stuck in her foot, so it was really painful and her foot swelled up and everything.
         So, we go to this gas station and they tell us we have to go to the hospital, so we go to the hospital in Cape Coral and I think we were there for probably ten hours.
      
   

   
   
      
         Can I talk now?
      
      
         Yeah go ahead and try it.
      
      
         OK, I was four years old, from what my mom tells me I was four years old, and I was walking on the beach with my grandfather and apparently I stepped on a sticker bush and I had like four stickers in my foot
         .
         And it just stressed me terribly and I was crying and crying and I kept on just saying, "I need a doctor
         , I need a doctor!
         Get me a doctor!"
         
         And I guess my grandfather convinced me to take them out of my foot and I lived to tell this story.
      
      
         Good thing.
      
      
         Well, Okey-dokey
         .
         Um, let's see, some other stories that I remember, let me think.
         Stop me, can I, stop me while I think?
         Um, um.
      
      
         What stories do you tell Gage?
         Like books do you read to him?
      
      
         Um, we read, what do we read?
         We read all kinds of books.
         Whatever he pulls off of the shelf.
         And he has a hundred books.
      
      
         What's his favorite?
      
      
         Um, he doesn't really have a favorite; he picks whichever one is going that night.
         He just got a book it's called, um, Eagle Boy, and it's about a, um, a Indian tribe on the CA coast, who does, uh, they run out of food in the area where they are.
         And ( ).
         Anyway, so it's about this Indian tribe on the CA coast and wherever they are, they run out of food and they decide that they have to move.
         Well, this one little boy had always, um, been real nice to the eagles and thought they were really cool and all this, and, um, for whatever reason the tribe decides that they need to leave him behind, and they leave him on the beach as they paddle off.
         Well, he was starving and an eagle came by and dropped a salmon down for him or some fish and he was able to eat.
         And it's because he had always been nice to the eagles and talked to the eagles and all that and they saw that he was in trouble.
         Well, he really liked one of the little girls who had gone off with the rest of the tribe and so he told the eagles to drop her some food because he knew they were starving too and the eagle did.
         And then they realized that it was all because of the, him that the eagles were dropping them food, and so they came back and got him and it was one big happy tribe again.
         And the little girl and boy married and lived happily ever after.
         And so that one he just got, and he likes that one.
         Um, he likes, what other stories do we tell?
         He really likes to make up stories.
         He'll like, it's usually about a Power Ranger.
         And the Power Ranger has to overcome some huge enemy and it's usually a bloody battle
         , but the Power Ranger always wins.
         He'll make up those from Eden to Greensboro, which is 40 minutes long, and you have to do it.
         And so, he, that, he usually does that with his grandmother, and they make up a story the whole way home.
         And he tries to get me to do it, but I cannot talk to like that 40 minutes, so we just usually make it halfway with our stories.
         Um, what other stories do we tell?
      
      
         Any good life experience stories?
      
      
         No
         .
         Um, we tell Gage about, like we'll tell him about like if you do this, you know, could be hurt.
         Like, um, "When I was little I knew a boy who stuck his head out and got hit by the by the telephone pole while he was in the car and killed him.
         Don't stick your head out."
         Um
         , like when he, one time we were at my mom's house and she had just made pies and he saw them come out of the oven, and he knew they were hot but it had been sitting on the stove for a little bit.
         And he went up to grab it and he burned his fingers and so we told him, you know, times that we burned ourselves and that it hurts and that it will stop.
         And plus, you know, Rob can talk away fire so we had to call Daddy and tell him to talk away Rob, Gage's fire.
         And, um, so we tell him about that.
      
      
         How does Rob talk away this fire?
      
      
         He, he does some, I don't know.
         See, he can't tell you
         , but he does something like this, and then he has to know your birth date, your birth date, your age I don't know, something else and it, it works, I'm not kidding.
      
      
         It makes things stop hurting?
      
      
         It makes your burn stop hurting.
         The next time you burn, call Rob and he'll say, "How old are you and what's your birthday?"
         and then you just hang up and it will go away.
         He does, he says something; it's very weird.
         I'm being serious though, it works.
         I've burned myself and called him and he does it and it stops hurting.
         Now maybe if I never called him, it would just stop hurting anyway, but I don't know
         .
         So Rob can do that.
         Let's see what's another story?
         Um what's something else?
      
      
         Anything good you remember just like childhood story like something you did when you were a child, teenager?
      
      
         No teenager stories
         .
      
      
         ( )
      
      
         When you know my dad had that hearse, that convertible hearse?
         Well he used to like, there was like-
      
      
         A convertible hearse?
      
      
         You knew about that.
         You knew the hearse that he, anyway we had a neighbor who said, "I bet you can't take a hearse and make it into a convertible," and my dad said, "I bet I can."
         
         Dad went out, bought a hearse, cut off the top, and painted it like bright yellow, and it had red velvet seats in it.
         He had a convertible top made for this stupid thing.
         I mean, oh my gosh, it was in our garage for years
         .
         Anyway, so Dad, Dad made this convertible hearse and he used to take all the neighborhood kids, and there was like ten of us.
         He put us all in the hearse and we would go hooker hunting downtown.
      
      
         Hooker what?
      
      
         Hooker hunting
         !
         So, we'd go downtown and go, "There's one!"
         
         But see, and really it was just to go to Dairy Queen, `cause you had to go downtown to go to Dairy Queen, and he was really taking us all for ice cream
         .
         But we used to call it hooker hunting
         .
         And so, the kids would come over and go, "Phil can we go hooker hunting?"
         We'd do that and, um, that's my dad, Jesus!
         What else would my dad do?
         My dad did all kinds of crazy things to our house.
         He would he had the canoe strung up in the tree on a pulley system so all he would have to do is pull the car up underneath the tree and he'd let the canoe down on the car, unhook it
         back by the hearse was the canoe in the tree.
         Damn, to be me.
      
   

   
   
      
         Hi my name is Sandra Reid and I am part of a family of seven children, um, and my mom and dad have passed away.
         During our young years we were very poor.
         
         We did not have very much but my mom always found a way to keep us busy or keep us entertained, and one of the ways that she kept us entertained was by telling stories, reading poems, and singing to us.
         One of the stories that I would like to share with you is the story that is pretty scary and it sticks out into my mind, I guess, mostly, mainly because it was scary.
         Even though my mom told us lot of scary stories she was always there to hold us in her arms and let us know that the story was not true and that it was we were OK.
         Out of all of my sisters and brothers I was the laziest one of all, as far as working around the house.
         All of my sisters learned to cook by the age of eight.
         I learned after I got married
         so I was a pretty lazy child when it came down to cleaning up and cooking.
         So one night my mother asked me to go inside and wash the dishes.
         Naturally, I start crying, and one of my main ways of getting out of work was always saying something hurt me, either my stomach, or that I had a headache, or something was wrong with my leg.
         Just anything to get out of doing my job.
         So after she noticed that I was going to be just a little stubborn and not follow, do what she tell told me to do, she asked me to come around in the living room with her and the rest of the family.
         So she began to tell this story.
         Once upon a time there was this little girl and her family.
         And the mother asked the little girl to please go in and wash the dishes so that she could go to bed early and not come up, wake up in the morning and see all those dishes on the table.
         And her little girl just complained, "I don't want to wash the dishes.
         I don't want to.
         My leg hurts, my head hurts.
         I don't feel good."
         The little girl disappointed her mother so badly, but her mother said, "How in the world am I ever going to get her to wash these dishes?"
         So she said, "Little girl, little girl, if you don't go in there and wash those dishes like I asked, you something really, really bad is going to happen to you."
         So the little girl just said, "OK I'll go in there and wash the dishes."
         And she was in there stomping and crying and mad and taking all her good time.
         All of a sudden the butcher knife came out of the drawer and it began to roll around in the air.
         And before you know it, the butcher knife came around and cut the little girl's head off.
         And when the little girl went to heaven she was crying down to her dad and saying "Daddy, Daddy!
         Mama cut my head off with the butcher knife."
         Now that knife, when I went to sleep it really scared me.
         But the wonderful thing about it my mom was always there close by to let me know that I was OK.
         Now after that, my mother continued to tell us many, many scary stories and tell us many, many, many poems.
         I'd like to tell you about how I got into becoming a teacher's assistant.
         All my life I always wanted to be a teacher even from the time I started to school.
         That was my dream, to teach school.
         As I told you, in the past we were a very poor family and I never got the chance to go to college because of this.
         Uh, while I was in high school a teacher of mine noticed that I had an extra bone in my foot and she said, "Well now Sandra we can use this as get toward, on your grant to go to college."
         So she said, "Go home and talk to your mother about it and see if we, you know, can follow through with applying for a grant, scholarship grant for you."
         So that night I went home and I asked my mother about it and she said, "Baby, I really want you to go to college.
         It's always been my dream that my children all go to school.
         But because there are so many children in the family there are other things you're going to have to have to go to school and I just don't have the money."
         At that time my dad was in prison at the time, so it made it really hard for my mom.
         I sat there and I cried but I tried to be as understanding as possible because I knew my mother struggled really hard to even keep food on the table for us.
         So I never got a chance to go to school.
      
      
         Did anybody?
      
      
         Yes, my brother went to school.
         He went to Livingstone and then to transferred to Johnson C. Smith, so to make it easier on my mom, to, as far as, you know, him staying at home and going to school too.
         So he graduated from, um, Johnson C. Smith, here in Charlotte.
         I had another sister who went to Gaston College where she got a business degree there.
         I, in later years, I went on to college some but I didn't complete the, uh, whole four years.
         Um, I remember once, when I was working in a mill, and I was spinning yarn, and I was saying to myself, and, I was praying actually, and I said, "God, one day I want to work in the school system.
         If I could just work, even as a teacher assistant I would be happy."
         As the years went by my prayer was answered and I got the chance to work in the cafeteria as a cashier and the principal there came up to me and said, "Have you considered being a teacher assistant?"
         I said, "I would love to."
         So they told me about some classes that I could take at Central Piedmont.
         I'd never gone to college before.
         I was really afraid.
         But he told me to go ahead and try it, so I took the entrance test, and they accepted me into at the school, and I took some courses there.
         After a while, the principal said, "I would like for you to bring me your, um, transcript so I can see what your grades are like."
         Luckily I had all A's.
         I did very well.
         And he asked me to be a teacher assistant the next following year.
         Um, my dream, my prayers were answered.
         I enjoy my job very much.
         I can't think of any job that would make me any happier.
         A few years later, um, I had the opportunity to apply for a scholarship to further my education.
         At first I didn't want to apply for it, but the principal called me during the summer months and said, "Sandra the time is running out, you need to apply."
         And he told me I would have to write this paper.
         Well I didn't like writing at the time
         but I took it upon myself to go ahead and write a paper.
         And I went to, um, one of my staff members and I asked her if she would proofread it, and she thought it was an excellent paper.
         And I went ahead and mailed it in thinking uh I won't get the scholarship.
         Who cares?
         I don't, just so I can work in the school I'll be happy.
         But one day I came in and I looked at my mail and I was accepted.
         
         I couldn't believe it.
         Out of 150 assistants who had applied for this grant only 16 got the opportunity, so I felt very proud of myself.
         So I went on and took the courses, and as I started I think I was taking economics.
         I think that was the last class I took.
         My husband became very ill with cancer and I had to make a decision as to whether I would continue my education or take care of him and I felt like I needed to take care of him because he stood by me so much while I was going to school.
      
      
         But you would have been able to be a, a teacher if you had continued?
      
      
         Yeah, and at the time, I was also working in the classroom.
         I guess you'd say as a sub because the teacher that I was working with at that time was pregnant and she had to take a leave of absence.
         And they hired a sub but the sub didn't do that much.
         I had to take over the classroom.
         So I worked maybe like four months in the classroom and that highly put a damper on my wanting
         to be a teacher from all the responsibility along with the fact that I was taking care of a very sick husband.
         After all of this was, after I, I decided not to continue I've never pursued the fact of going back to school.
         I just got to a certain age and I said, "No I can't do this anymore," so I never went back.
         But I love what I do and, uh, anytime I get a chance to teach in a classroom I go for it so.
      
      
         How many different schools did you teach at?
      
      
         I've only worked at two, two schools.
         The first school I worked at was Enderly Park and then it was closed down.
         So I was in those situations where I first, come first, transfer last, come first to transfer out.
         So I had to, I was offered a job at Ashley Park or Berryhill and I chose Berryhill.
         I didn't particularly want to come here and when I came here everybody noticed that I was really, really sad because I loved being at Enderly Park.
         But then, after awhile, I fell in love with Berryhill.
         If I'm not mistaken I think I've been at Berryhill for I think 17 years, 17, 18 years I've been here at Berryhill so and I hope I never have to leave until I retire.
         
      
      
         And why did the other school close down?
      
      
         Um, the, you know, I really don't know.
         Um, that, I really don't know why they closed that school down because it was a really nice school and everything, but they eventually tore it down because I was there I think the first year I went there was the year they built a really nice gym, and I don't think they used that gym no more than three years.
         I really don't, I don't remember why that school was ever closed but it was.
         And I enjoy what I do.
         That's it.
      
      
         All right thank you.
      
      
         Thank you.
      
   

   
   
      
         My name is Bonnie Rindner and I was born in San Antonio, TX, and the story I'm going to tell is about my mother.
         Um, a little background first.
         Her, let's see, her mother's family were wealthy people at one time.
         They owned car dealerships and extensive land.
         Um, I don't know if they were farmers or not, but I know they were land owners, um, many acres and, um, her grandmother was raised in wealth.
         Uh, then the Depression came and apparently everyone lost all their money.
         Um, she was raised in MO, and she married a man, this is my grandmother I'm talking about.
         And they were very poor by this point, and they had, I think, seven children.
         And one particular Christmas, things were very, very difficult.
         There was no money to buy any presents at all, um, for the children, and my grandfather, who was killed when my mother was 16, this was, of course, way before that, um, he must have been a very positive person because what he did with the situation was he, he told the children that there were no presents this Christmas because they had given them all to Santa to take the poor children and this made the children feel happy and proud of themselves and it gave them a good feeling that they had done something very nice for someone less fortunate than themselves.
         Um, I felt like that was a way to face that situation with such hope and with joy and with love.
         And although I never met my grandfather, I have never forgotten that story and when I hear of him I think what a wonderful, wonderful person he must have been.
      
      
         And how long have you lived in Charlotte?
      
      
         Oh, I have lived in Charlotte, um, for a year.
         Um, I lived in Charlotte for five years.
         We came here in 1986, we lived here for five years, then we moved to Raleigh for seven years and now we've been back one year.
      
      
         Well, good.
      
   

   
   
      
         OK.
         Are you ready?
      
      
         Ready.
      
      
         All right.
         This is the story of Robin Hood.
         Robin Hood is, uh, or was, way back when, the home of my mother, as she grew up in Alma, Michigan.
         Um, it was a community that was put together by Englishmen, um, they were all farms, and each one had a name, like Robin Hood or something to do with England.
         Uh, there was some land, that would have been so many acres per house, and Robin Hood, um, had fond memories for my mother
         .
         But the story I want to tell happens more, um, as I was a little girl, so it was many years later.
         I was born in 1936.
         Uh, we were at my grandfather's farm, which was a different farm at that time, but it's still in the same Alma, Michigan, uh, area.
         And my aunts were all visiting; my uncles, and the cousins were there also.
         And one of the aunts, or my mother, said, "Let's go see Robin Hood."
         Well, Robin Hood had been, they moved many years ago from there, uh, so we all piled into the car and went to see Robin Hood.
         As we drove up to Robin Hood, you could tell it was left to the elements.
         There was grass, waving in the breeze and it was rather sad, no paint on the house, but you could see it had been a beautiful home at one time.
         We went up the back porch uh, the well was open, anyone could've fallen into the well, it was in the back porch, or the side porch.
         Went in, and, uh, it always, mother had always talked about the staircase and how beautiful it was, and indeed it probably had been.
         As we walked up the stairs, the window was broken and the shade was flapping in the breeze, and the wallpaper was wet from the rain, and the elements had been coming in for years; as we walked through the home, and I have fond memories of that day, I was probably in the fifth or sixth grade, I would imagine.
         Um, we went outdoors then, went into the barn, and there was a dead calf in the barn.
         Now, whether that calf had just wandered in, or whatever I don't know.
         Uh, we ourselves lived in Grand Rapids, Michigan, so we went home, uh, from Grandpa's farm that night.
         Uh,
         and my mother sat down, probably that first week, and she wrote a poem and, uh, the poem tells a lot.
         My mother's name was, uh, Catherine Berry McGovern.
         
         The poem is titled, "The Place of my Childhood Dreams":Nearer and nearer my footsteps led me Back to the place of my childhood dreams.
         Cautiously, I opened the door; I remembered no key had been turned in the lock.
         Slowly, I entered each battered room And saw the cracked plaster, the discolored walls.
         Lastly, I ascended the old, open stairway, Once the pride of my joyful, young life.
         At the landing, I gazed out the window, And there was the woods in the distance--- The woods where we had gathered wildflowers in the spring.
         And then I remembered our mother's voice calling from somewhere, "Children, be sure to put them in water---'tis cruel to pluck them, and then let them wither and die."
         Slowly as I had entered, I walked, from the home of my childhood dreams
         .
         As if from some sacred tomb I'd walked down and out and into the bright sunny spring air.
         The birds, I could hear them singing.
         How I had loved any one of those songs.
         Our favorite rosebush was gone, I saw, And wondered if others had loved it as I. From the distance, the town hall clock was striking, the school bell was ringing, I could hear, from the small town away.
         Then suddenly, the thought came.
         The sights and the sounds of the world could go on forever, But the place of my childhood dreams could never again feel the same inside.
      
      
         It's beautiful.
      
      
         My mother, um, had a wonderful life, really.
         Uh, Robin Hood, they moved into Robin Hood as a brand new farm.
         It burned within the first month that they were there.
         It was then rebuilt, and they moved in.
         And I believe, after a time, they really couldn't afford to live there any more.
         So, they moved to another farm, and lo and behold, that house also caught on fire.
         Um, as I grew up, we lived in the city until I was in the sixth grade.
         And Mother and Dad then purchased an old farmhouse, and remodeled this farmhouse, it took al, took almost a year to remodel.
         It wa, it was a wonderful uh, farm, it had wonderful gardens, as you might tell, my mother was a gardener.
         Um, when they were still remodeling the house, it was Christmastime, and we still lived in the city, the phone rang uh, whether it did or it didn't, my father said it did.
         And we went, uh, he said that we had to go out to the farm because, uh, someone had left the light on in the barn.
         So we piled into the car, Christmas Eve, and it was snowing, so beautiful.
         Typical, as I remember, dream Christmas Eve.
         And we went out, and we drove up the driveway, and Daddy went down to the bottom, the barn, and as we opened the door, a horse whinnied.
         And it was our first horse that we had, it was, uh, a Christmas present.
         And I still can picture that with the, uh, the light, the outdoor light of the barn and the snow coming down, it was really, beautiful.
         But, uh, we lived there, we moved in the spring of `48, and uh, February, around February 10 of 1959, I got a call and the house was on fire.
         It was winter, and of course, there wasn't any water and, uh, they just had water in the tank truck, and the house was gutted out, as a result of that.
         My father was in the hospital at the time, and he died a month later.
         So my mother then left our home, and, uh, didn't have a home to go to, and built a home in the city, then, uh, was happy there, although she was lonely, I'm sure.
         And, uh, created another garden, but was never the same thing.
         There was a piano that was always in each one of those homes.
         My sister still has that piano and, uh, still has the best tune of any piano I've ever heard.
         Sorry for my crackly voice.
         It's been difficult, but I loved her
         .
         Um, when my mother passed away, she passed away in 1992 and, uh, after her funeral, we went out to the farm.
         By then it, someone else had built a house on the same spot; what had been a dirt road was then a four-lane highway.
         We pulled into the driveway, and someone was living in the house, of course, and the barn was still there.
         I mean the house that they had built on this property.
         Where there had been a formal garden to the left of the driveway was then, a woods, as time had taken its toll.
         And, um, the people were very happy to see us.
         And it was a very healing experience; we walked the property somewhat.
         We walked down to the creek and the watercress was still growing in the creek as it had as I grew up.
         Uh, it was interesting that the man was sensitive as we are, and he said that they would go to certain corners of the fields on the property that was sixty-seven acres and, you could still feel Mr. McGovern's presence.
         And, uh, I liked that
         because my father was a very sensitive man, although he came across as he was being very gruff, he was not
         .
         OK.
      
   

   
   
      
         This is Gladys Shamblin.
         She is Japanese-American.
         She has lived in the Charlotte area for 13 years, and she is going to talk about growing up Japanese-American in West Virginia.
      
      
         Um, when I grew up in West Virginia, um, it was like it was backwards compared to the Charlotte area.
         It was just, uh, the people were just so different there, a lot of coal miners and, uh, there's a lot of people on welfare.
         It was just a different place to live.
         \\ Uh.
         \\
      
      
         \\ Where were you in West Virginia?
         \\
      
      
         We were growing up in Madison, West Virginia, and prior to that Kentucky.
         We lived in Kentucky, uh briefly.
         My father was from Kentucky, and we call him "The Kentucky Redneck," and
         my mother was Japanese and when she came to the United States, she couldn't speak any English or anything.
         And, uh, so she spoke broken English, and as we were being raised we learned to interpret everything she said.
         And no matter what anyone, uh, mom would say, no matter what she would say to someone, we would understand exactly what she meant, exactly what she was saying, and they couldn't believe it.
         It was like speaking a different language.
         But, um, as we grew up, our mother taught us a lot about respect and how important it is to be good and kind to other people, be courteous, uh, be thankful for all the little things that people do for you.
         I didn't realize she had implanted that in my head all these years until I grew up and people wondered why I was being so
         nice.
         Um, they thought I had a hidden agenda but it's, it was just the way I was raised.
         Um.
         And then growing up in West Virginia and being part Japanese and the only family in that area that was Japanese, it was kind of difficult.
         Um, especially when there was just a handful of Native Americans, then there were some African Americans, just a handful of them, and then there was us.
         So we were the minority, and we were very different than other families.
         Um.
         When they would start to cover like the WWII stories at school and in history class, we would, uh, kind of shrink under our seats because, you know, everybody would start yelling "Jap."
         And, uh, we, until then we didn't feel like we were different, and then we realized after that, well, we looked Japanese although we were 100% American.
         People, people would look at us and know we were different, so they would treat us different.
         Um.
         But we would go home and my mother would always reassure us that uh, it's OK to be different.
         It's what is in your heart that matters.
         So as we grew up, I, I thought it was a curse, when I was younger, being Japanese.
         Uh, went around with, not so much a chip on my shoulder, just, uh, an inferiority complex and didn't realize until I got older that I was very much proud to be Japanese.
         And uh, got to visit Japan a couple of times, and realized that's the best thing God could have given me was to be different because I'm able to help other people go through the same situation.
         Um--
      
      
         What kind of stories did your, your mother used to tell you?
      
      
         Oh, Mom used to tell us stories, when she was 11 years old, um, when World War II did hit, she looked up, which her home was not far from Hiroshima--
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         And, uh, she looked up and could see the bombs and everything.
         And she remembers being scared and thinking that she was going to die, and she said it was just one of the hardest times of her life.
         That, but, uh, they made it through that, and um, she really never showed any bitterness or anything towards American people, but, uh, she was always just grateful for her life.
      
      
         Huh.
      
      
         Uh.
         And then Mom raised five children, I have, had three brothers and a sister.
         And she raised us with speaking broken English, and she eventually did learn English fairly well.
         She took English as a second language just after my father died.
         Um, but she was, she never worked outside the home.
         She raised us; she said that was her job.
         Um--
      
      
         How did your parents meet?
      
      
         They met, my, my mother was going to Tokyo University in Tokyo and working part-time at a china factory, and my father had gone there to buy some china for his mother, and, uh, he met my mother and just fell head over heels in love.
         And she thought he was a crazy
         American.
         And, um, he just kept being nice to her,
         and she, her family couldn't believe she would leave them and move to the United States to be with this man,
         but she did.
         And, uh, they, they were pretty happy.
         I mean she went from being fairly wealthy, though, to being poor--
      
      
         Hum.
      
      
         And that was difficult.
         But when she started having children, she said that, that's her life.
         Her children were her life.
         So, um,
         as we got older we really appreciated that, and, uh,
         when Mom got sick, she had cancer, it was our turn to take care of her.
         So for about six months, we, my sister and I both, we just kept, we just stayed beside her bed and we took care of her and it was wonderful, it was like us giving back to Mom.
      
      
         Hum.
         Did she ever go back to Japan?
      
      
         She went back twice.
         She went back right after my father died.
         He died of a massive heart attack when he was 48, and, uh, she went back that time and stayed a couple months.
         She was able to see her mother and um, get to know her family again because it had been 22 years.
         So, uh, that was wonderful, and then she went one other time, which was her last time, uh, and stayed about a month, and she came back.
         My first trip to Japan, although it was a sad trip, it was a watershed in my life.
         It was uh, after she died of cancer, my sister and I had her cremated and we took her ashes back to be with her family.
      
      
         Hum.
      
      
         So that was my first trip to Japan.
         My second trip was um, to take my daughter when she turned 16, which was a wonderful trip, and helped her understand her grandmother's culture.
         And then we plan to take my son next year when he turns 16 just so we can, uh, show him Japan.
         And we feel like travel is one of the best things you can give your children.
         Money, clothes and all that can go away but travel is in your memories and that when I'm dead and gone I want them to remember that
         .
      
      
         You mentioned that your mom talked a lot about her older brother.
         What were some of the stories she told about him?
      
      
         Well, Mom came from a traditional Japanese family um, where the Number One son does take over after the parents get to be a certain age.
         And then when he gets to be a certain age, his son takes over.
         So it's gone that way for the past 200 years.
         And, um, right now my uncle is
         almost 90, and his son is taking care of him.
         He's a Buddhist priest.
         My mother's father was a Buddhist priest.
         So that's the kind of story she'd tell us.
         She would tell us about how the people in the community always took care of their family because they were so well respected, and they lived in a beautiful place, and people would bring them gifts because they just appreciated their presence in the community.
         And um,
         we, when Mom would tell us these stories, we would laugh.
         We would think "Oh yeah, right, you were rich."
         And then when I did go over to Japan, I did see what she was talking about and really felt guilty that we didn't believe her, totally believe her, that, that she had all this, but um, according to Japanese standards, uh, they are just very wealthy.
         And then they come here and they look at my house
         and they, no really, land over there is so very expensive so they are very wealthy, and then they come here, and I live in a very basic house, and they think I'm rich, so uh, that's kind of comical
         which we're not, we're very middle class
         .
      
      
         That was a drastic change for her--
      
      
         It was.
      
      
         I mean, to go from there to, wow--
      
      
         She was pretty much treated like a princess, pretty much, I mean they catered to her family, they adopted children--
      
      
         Wow.
         What did your dad do in West Virginia?
      
      
         Actually, my father was, um, supervisor for the telephone company--
      
      
         Hum.
      
      
         Which is, I guess, why I love being around telephones and fixing phones, and I love what I do now.
         I guess it's almost to honor him.
      
      
         Why was he in Japan?
      
      
         Uh, he was in the uh, Korean War.
      
      
         OK
      
      
         Yeah, and that's where he learned all his telephone skills.
         He, uh, learned a lot in the Army, and then I think I'm the only one that kind of pursued an interest in telephones and communications and such--
      
      
         That is interesting that it would come back around that way.
         Um, was there anything else your family used to do or talked about that you wanted to include?
      
      
         Um, we used to camp, which was very unusual for my mother
         .
      
      
         Oh, I bet.
      
      
         I mean she was kind of comical.
         She was "Miss Prissy" out there, trying to camp
         .
         We used to, uh, we used to try to act like a normal
         American family, but we would have rice at the campground
         .
         I never remembered a day in my life that I didn't have rice.
         We always ate rice.
         If you got sick, she would ball up little balls of rice and, you know, "Just eat this you'll be OK."
         So she thought it, rice was a cure-all.
         But uh--
      
      
         Do you eat rice now?
      
      
         Yes, I have a rice cooker, and I pretty much keep rice on all the time.
         And my husband has learned to like it, and my children love it.
         And my daughter is pursuing a career in uh, political science and Asian studies--
      
      
         Huh?
      
      
         So she can go over there and teach English in Japan.
         And her junior year in college, she is at Furman University, her junior year she plans to go over there and spend the whole year, studying in Japan.
         So I really feel like she's doing everything I wished I could have done
         .
      
      
         Um huh.
         Is there anything else you want to include?
      
      
         No, not really but I appreciate it.
      
   

   
   
      
         You can just answer them and feel free to respond however you want to, OK?
         What stories or books do you remember reading as a little person?
         Little boy?
      
      
         My two favorite books as a child was Curious George and The Jungle Book.
      
      
         Curious George.
         That was the little red monkey with the black and white-?
      
      
         Yes.
      
      
         Did you have that doll?
      
      
         No.
         I didn't have the doll; I just had the books.
      
      
         Who told, did, did, is that story your mom read to you or did you like-?
      
      
         My mom started reading it to me when I was small and, and I picked it up on my own reading and I enjoyed the illustrations as much as the book.
      
      
         So you liked the pictures?
      
      
         Yes.
      
      
         Were they bright books?
         Or did they have bright pictures?
      
      
         They all had yellow covers and they were all paperbacks.
         And they had just little, uh, cartoons.
         Not vivid pictures, just-
      
      
         They weren't real bright colors, were they?
         And the whole page wasn't colored.
      
      
         No.
         It was just individual pictures of the monkey himself and his immediate surroundings.
      
      
         
         The monkey, I didn't like Curious George.
         That's neat!
         All right, um, well, what about that book that your mama bought you that time that, she told briefly that story.
         That book that she bought called In One Light.
      
      
         That's why I have such fond memories of The Jungle Book.
         Because she purchased a book for me and my brother and, um, it was a publishing company that could add your names and your friend's names and family names into the, into the plot of the story.
         So you became a character.
         And it really brought home, um, events of the book to you because it was personal and it was, it was, individualistic.
      
      
         Who were you?
         Do you remember what character you played?
      
      
         I was just one of the jungle boys-
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         -who went through and had interaction with each of the members of The Jungle Book.
         There was the snake and the lion and the elephant.
      
      
         I remember The Jungle Book but do you remember the book Little Black Sambo?
      
      
         No I don't.
      
      
         OK.
         That was a story that I have fond memories of.
         Who would you consider the best storyteller in your family?
      
      
         The best storyteller would be my grandfather, my mother's father.
      
      
         Lemmie.
      
      
         Lemmie.
         Because he, he grew up, um, one of six children, and so that just adds to his storytelling and imagination and his, he's always had interaction with people so that just adds to how he interacts with people now.
      
      
         Do you remember any one particular story that he told?
         You can't think of a story?
      
      
         Not, um, right off.
      
      
         I know the story he tells about, well he's always telling about going to play music and how they'd play when he was young.
         So can you think of a story?
      
      
         I can remember a story that really is humorous in a way because he always tells a story about how he used to double date with his future wife, and my mother, which is his daughter and my dad because, unfortunately his wife passed away when, when she was really young so-
      
      
         So Eileen and him double dated with your mom and dad?
      
      
         Right.
         He would talk about how he would ask, um, he would always try to get my dad to end up paying for all four of them's dinner.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         And how they used to ride around together some.
         That, that to me is just something.
         It's hard to imagine your, your grandparents double dating with your parents, but, you know, that was a unique situation.
      
      
         
         So he's always been tight?
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         Um, how does he tell, when he tells those stories, like does he usually tell them at family gatherings?
         How does he do it?
      
      
         Most of the time it's during family gatherings.
         He's always got a story to tell, regardless if he sees you or if it's a family gathering.
         He's got, you know, he's going to be the one that's got, the one who is keeping the crowd up, or, or, you know, just being himself.
      
      
         
         What about you?
         What do you, when we, you and I, since we are husband and wife, when we have kids, do you imagine yourself as that kind of person?
         Like that kind of storyteller?
         Like Grandpa George and Lemmie?
         Do you see yourself like that?
      
      
         Probably, I don't know, some, to a degree.
         Um, he's probably the one person in my family who's like that.
         The rest of my family is pretty laid back and goes with the flow.
         So I think I'd probably be a little bit of him, yet a little bit of everybody else, and I'm not really one to steal the, steal the show at gatherings or what have you.
      
      
         If you were going to tell a story to your kids about your childhood, what story would you tell?
      
      
         It would probably all be sports related stories, um, because sports to me has been such a big factor in my life whether it teaches you the value of competition or the value of sportsmanship or the learning from mistakes of, um, in sports you are sometimes forced to make quick decisions and sometimes those decisions are not necessarily the right ones.
         You may end up being thrown out of a game for something stupid you do.
      
      
         Well, I think maybe you are, ah, trying to preface some story about getting thrown out of a game.
      
      
         Well, um, there have been times when me and my friends have gotten into a little bit of trouble.
         But we'd play our archrivals in a summer league baseball game.
      
      
         Who was your archrival?
      
      
         The team from the northern part of our county, North Stokes and we were the southern part, South Stokes.
         And, uh, they had one pitcher in particular who didn't like us and he was scheduled to pitch that night and after I had been hit the third time and my best friend had been hit the second time, we kind of decided that we were going take it upon ourselves to hit back.
         Only not with baseballs but with fists, so we charged the mound.
         Um, so, you know, things like that are learning experiences where you learn to grow up and mature.
      
      
         So what you going to tell your kid if someone from away hits them three times with a baseball?
         Charge the mound?
      
      
         I've been there and I know what isn't necessarily the right decision.
      
      
         What about, what is your worst memory, not your worst as in bad, but just the worst kind of memorable memory you have about playing sports all through your life?
      
      
         Well, the good thing about sports is you can remember one thing that occurs or it, or it can be a collection of memories.
         And a lot what I have are a collection of memories because when you play for 21 years of your life in sports like I have, um, really what stands out is just year to year.
         So many things can happen over the course of a year that, or over the course of that many years
         nothing stands out in particular it is just bunch of fond
         memories.
      
      
         OK, we have a phone call.
         We have an interruption.
      
      
         OK, sorry about that.
         Uh, back to the sports thing.
         You were talking about how you just had a collection of memories.
         Well if you had, how do you think you got started in sports?
         What was your family's connection to you in sports?
         Like Jeff, your brother, and Denise, and your dad and mom?
      
      
         Well, the funny thing is my parents were both athletic in high school.
         My dad played baseball in school and my mom was the star basketball player.
      
      
         Yeah, with her hook shot.
      
      
         With her patented jump hook shot.
         But, when it came to my older brother and older sister, neither one of them part-, participated in sports.
         And I wasn't, um, pushed by either one of my parents to play sports.
         It was just the kind of thing where, um, in kindergarten or even before kindergarten, it just, it just came to me that I wanted to play tee ball and from there it started.
         And after that, I asked to put up a hoop in our backyard and luckily I had plenty of, of children my age to play with and that used to be the ritual: have the neighborhood kids come over to my hoop and we'd play basketball and it ended up I was playing with a lot of older kids and so I developed an athletic ability through playing with the neighborhood kids in basketball and just starting so early and continuing on in baseball.
         So it's kind of just evolved.
         It wasn't something that was, you know, forced upon me.
      
      
         So Jeff or Denise neither one, you don't have any memories of playing with them in the yard?
      
      
         I would play with them in the yard, but they never played any organized sports.
         My sister is quite older than I am so, she and I, as far as playing sports together, you know, that was few and far between.
      
      
         She was dating when you were playing sports?
      
      
         Right.
         But my brother and I would play basketball in the yard or play baseball, and we used to play a lot of kickball in our yard, because we had a big yard and a lot of kids, so we were always coming up with something.
      
      
         What about, hmm, your daddy?
      
      
         My dad would always play too, um, he was always just one of the kids.
         Um, because we had, you know, when I was 10 or 12, we'd play against kids who were 14, 16 and my brother was about seven years older and he would come out and play, and so it was just kind of natural for my dad to fit in and play along.
         And, uh, he was always good too, and he was one of the reasons, he made me good in what I was doing because he would challenge me.
         Of course he was about 6'2" when I was growing up at 10 or 12 years old, so, he, he would challenge me to get better.
      
      
         Did he let you win?
      
      
         Sometimes, but not usually.
      
      
         Um, what's the best memory you have with your daddy and sports, because I know your daddy's- MS: Well-
      
      
         -important to you.
      
      
         Well, they always say that some of the bad things are what stands out and not necessarily a bad thing but it is one of my best memories is, ah.
         Well my dad was diagnosed with cancer right before baseball season my senior year and it didn't keep him from coming to any of the baseball games though.
         I can remember him just in, in the months prior, just prior to when he died, it was like it took every ounce of energy he had to show up at the baseball games, but nothing kept him from showing up.
         Like I said, you don't remember one thing in particular, you remember things collectively and I remember that season collectively and him making that effort to show up at the games.
      
      
         So, it meant a lot to you that he did that for you?
      
      
         Absolutely.
      
      
         He always videoed all your games too, didn't he?
      
      
         As many as he could.
         That last year I don't have any of those because he wasn't able to do it, but all of my baseball and basketball games prior to that he wanted to videotape them for-.
         It kind of started out in a funny way.
         It started out as, "Well, if I videotape them and we take them home and watch them you can watch each tape and you can analyze what you need to do to get better.
         And you can also show those to your coach and, you know, he can view the team and see what they need to do to get better."
         But, you know, it just turned into something that I will always have, those collection of tapes, such memories.
         Both hearing his voice on them, screaming at the refs or screaming at me, cheering, and what have you.
         So, it's, it's become something that been unique as a collection of tapes.
      
      
         You said your daddy played baseball and that was the sport you were best in.
      
      
         Yeah, probably.
         I mean, relative to everybody else I was good in basketball but, you know, that can't really compare to Jerry Stackhouse or anybody like that.
      
      
         
      
      
         When you add six inches to me it makes it a little bit tougher for me to compete.
      
      
         But you are good at baseball?
      
      
         Um, I was decent I guess.
      
      
         So is that going to be the sport you push on our kid?
      
      
         I'm probably not going to push any sport on our kid, my kid, although I have always said when I was in college and, right after I gave up my sports career, I always said my kid, I'm going to teach him more and work with him all the time.
         But as I've grown older and matured I've decided I'm going to let my kid be who he wants to be.
      
      
         So if we have a-
      
      
         Or she!
      
      
         Or a she, exactly.
         Um, well, hmm, since, you know, this, I'm interviewing you, and you are my husband.
         I want you to tell me the fondest story you have of me and you together.
         Something that we have done.
      
      
         Well, it's kind of a, of a defiance story probably .
         One of the stories I remember most.
         Your dad's always been real, or kind of protective of you.
      
      
         Yeah!
      
      
         Especially when we first started dating and you didn't necessarily have the most reliable car of the people in NC.
      
      
         
      
      
         Your little wrecked `84 Honda Accord wasn't necessarily the thing you were going to drive two hours away, especially two hours to come and see me.
         But, um, one of the things I remember was you putting it, putting yourself getting in trouble, and really probably wasn't one of the wisest things we have ever done.
         Putting your personal safety on the line when you took off two hours up to my house against your parent's knowing.
         I guess your mom may have known but your dad didn't know.
      
      
         Yeah, I think I told my mom.
      
      
         And, uh, and we had a nice dinner and we went out to a movie and-
      
      
         What movie did we see?
      
      
         I don't even remember the movie.
      
      
         I think it was Pelican Brief.
      
      
         I just remember you coming up and that was one of the best times we have had.
         And of course one of the things I remember most was going out to the Farmhouse which was our first official, unofficial date.
      
      
         
      
      
         
         And by our first official, unofficial date, should I go into that, too?
      
      
         Yeah.
         You can tell that.
      
      
         OK.
         Well, we ah, I had just broken up with my girlfriend of, on and off girlfriend of two and a half to three years, and you were supposedly dating a guy in the Navy-
      
      
         
      
      
         -stationed in San Diego.
      
      
         ( )
         kind of a long distance relationship!
      
      
         And my, um, fraternity was having a cocktail and I, of course, needed someone to go with since I didn't have a, uh, girlfriend at the time.
         And all my friends said, "Why don't you ask Kristi?
         Why don't you ask Kristi?"
         Because we had a bunch of mutual friends in the fraternity and-
      
      
         Which one pushed you the most?
      
      
         Morgan Collini.
      
      
         Hum!
         Morgy!
      
      
         And, um, so we ended up going out but I didn't have any idea that you did have a boyfriend!
      
      
         But I told them to tell!
      
      
         Nobody told me.
         And so I was looking at it as a date, whereas she was looking at it as a, a night out just to get out and do things.
         I don't know, I don't remember if you ended up telling me at some point during the night if you had a boyfriend, um, but it really didn't slow me down any.
      
      
         
      
      
         I kept hitting on you, kept trying to charm you.
         I guess it got to you a little bit, because we ended up eventually-
      
      
         Eventually!
         Yeah I told you I had a boyfriend on the couch remember?
         You listened to the Christmas music too much maybe a little bit too much.
         Um, tell me, uh, about your Grandpa Willis because I don't know him that much.
         Tell me something about him.
      
      
         He was one of the most reserved people you will ever meet and ah, he was 84 when he passed away and he was about 5'10" and he never weighed over a hundred thirty-five pounds.
      
      
         You take after him.
      
      
         He grew up as a farmer, a tobacco farmer, and the thing about it is that he smoked non-filtered Camels since the time he was 15 years old and he passed away at the age of 85 with the cleanest lungs, but I'm sure it didn't make the rest of his body too healthy.
         But, um, but he was just an average hard working rural American.
         With one child and he loved his one child dearly.
      
      
         That's your daddy?
      
      
         When my dad passed away in 1992 it wasn't long after that he deteriorated.
         Um, pretty much to nothing because he, ah he had lost a major part of his life and it really brought him down but he didn't necessarily, he wasn't one of the most talkative people.
         If you talked to him, it was like pulling teeth sometimes, but he would do anything in the world for you.
         Um, he would always go the extra mile, he just didn't do it with words, he did it with actions.
      
      
         Did you ever remember him playing, was he a sports guy?
         Did he play sports with you or anything?
      
      
         Not really, hmm, he grew up on a farm and, you know, playing sports was, um, and he was so much older that I was, he wasn't really in the best of health when I was growing up.
         Um, of course, we would go up there every Sunday for Sunday lunch and, uh, he would get out in the yard with us and watch us climb trees and throw rocks and play, but he never really participated because he was 70 years older, you know, 70 years older than I was.
      
      
         So your grandpa was fairly old when you were born?
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         I didn't know that.
         I didn't know your grandpa was a tobacco farmer.
      
      
         Both of my grandparents were tobacco farmers.
         It's the main economy in Stokes County, is farming.
         So there's no big towns whatsoever in Stokes County.
      
      
         I know that you used to do that when you were little didn't you?
      
      
         Yeah.
         All of my neighbors and family members grew up on farms and, and as a child in the summer when you weren't playing sports, you were farming or working in tobacco to make money.
      
      
         What did you do?
      
      
         You primed the leaves, you'd chop it, and you'd plant it.
         You know, all the things necessary to raise the crop.
      
      
         And then did you sell it?
         I mean, is that what your grandpa did?
      
      
         Then the owners would take it to the, to the tobacco warehouse and then they would auction it off and sell it per pound.
         And that's what their, uh, that's what their way of living was, was to sell that tobacco.
      
      
         Hmm, that's all your grandpas ever did?
      
      
         Well, that's what they did until they became 55 or 60 years old, and then my late grandfather Lemmie went to work in a textile mill as a supervisor and my grandfather Willis went to work in a furniture factory.
      
      
         Industry-
      
      
         Industry.
      
      
         Industry, industry came in there.
         Um, what about your, um,
         childhood with your brother and sister?
         What is the funniest story that you remember with your brother and sister as a child?
         I've heard a couple, but-
      
      
         My sister was always the little tyrant.
         She is 11 years older than me and my brother is 7 years older than me.
         And during the summer when we were home from school, and I was five or six years old when they were both still home.
         She was responsible for making sure the house got clean and the chores got done and to make sure we played a part in that, and of course she was going to make sure we did our part.
         So she was the biggest slave driver I've ever seen, and my brother was always the rebel, and I, you know, as a five or six year old, I did what I could and she didn't really have a lot of trouble with me, but with my brother being, when she was 16 he was 12 so you can imagine what kind of battles they had.
         She always had this thing about when we rebelled she would lock us in two separate bedrooms.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Well, my brother's idea of rebelling was to escape out the window and run around.
         And one day, what he did was, we got locked into the room.
         I don't know what we did necessarily that day, but he climbed out the window and was running around.
      
      
         Which bedroom was he locked into?
      
      
         He was locked into the front bedroom.
      
      
         And you were locked into the-
      
      
         I was locked into the back.
      
      
         Which back?
         Your back?
      
      
         Well, that doesn't really mean anything to anybody who's listening.
      
      
         Well, it does!
         Me!
      
      
         But anyway, he climbed out a window and came by my window, and my window was several feet off the ground so it wasn't like I could escape.
         But he would throw rocks up to get my attention and he saw me look out the window and he was jumping up and down waving his arms and laughing because he was out and I was still in.
         Well, about that time he, he jumped on a honeybee.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         And, and the first thing I saw him do was hit the ground holding his feet so he kind of got what he deserved that day!
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Um, showing off a little bit, hmm, base, but they had their share of fights.
      
      
         Did he get caught?
      
      
         Yeah he got caught!
         And got locked back in with a, with a sore foot.
      
      
         Well, you were perfect, you never did anything?
         What about the hole in the wall?
      
      
         Well that's a different story!
         
      
      
         Huh!
         Yeah, that's what I thought!
         All right, uh, what about, um, your mom?
         Tell me some funny stories about your mom.
         She doesn't really tell many stories about her childhood or anything.
      
      
         My mom's got plenty of stories to tell I am sure.
         The funny, I think one of the most humorous things about her if you know my mom, she's, uh, 56 now and to imagine her with this patented hook shot on the basketball team and uh, the all-star of the, of the Stokes County Basketball League as a senior in high school is pretty funny!
         And she used to demonstrate that for me, too.
         We would go out and we would play horse and she would kick my butt because she had that hook shot that nobody else could do!
      
      
         
         In her high heel shoes!
      
      
         In her high heel shoes!
      
      
         Um, well OK.
         I guess that is probably about enough.
         Anything else that you want to add to your interview?
         OK thank you and now you are always on tape!
      
   

   
   
      
         OK.
         Have you lived in Charlotte your whole life?
      
      
         Yes, I have.
      
      
         Is there anything you want to talk about in relate-, relating to Charlotte or any particular stories you would like to share?
      
      
         Um, well, when I was about 15 I had to move from one part of Charlotte to another and it was a very hard experience for me because, um, my mother had, was remarried, um, because my father had died a few years prior to this.
         So, um, my family life was already kind of disrupted, so being pulled away from all my friends, um, really tore part of my life up because I was leaving, you know, the best group of friends that I'd even known and I'd grown up with them from like elementary school to high school.
         And, um, so I was really upset.
         I was angry with my mom.
         We didn't speak.
         She sent me to like a frigging shrink to, um, help maybe, you know, sort through my emotions or whatever.
      
      
         OK.
      
      
         Um, so, uh, but what, but actually, my move was probably one of the best things that ever happened to me, oddly enough, um,
         because when I moved, um, I met like, you know, close friends that, actually, now I go to college with and who I was a roommate with for a year or so.
         Um, so even though it was kind of a scary experience being uprooted from everything you knew, um, it gave me the chance to see that change is good and that, um, seeing a different part of, you know, just different parts of the same town, it's still very beneficial because it gave me the chance to realize how to adapt to different situations, into a different environment, relatively quickly.
         Um, because I ended up making a lot of good friends and, um, really loving the part of town that I moved to and really adapting to, um, my community there, um, and getting involved.
         And actually, the friends that I made there are the ones I ended up going to college with and not the ones from my first high school.
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         So, um-
      
      
         Do you feel it made it easier for you to adapt to college life because of the move?
      
      
         Definitely.
         Because I was already, in one sense, ready to for another change.
         Whereas a lot of my friends had never even been in a different situation, in a different group of friends from the ones they had known from elementary school.
         They couldn't imagine being uprooted and not seeing the same faces every day.
         Whereas I'd already had this type of thing in my life, so I was more, I think I was quicker to adapt to a different college surroundings.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Do you feel that it was hard being the new person in school?
         I mean were people really, did they I don't know how to put it.
      
      
         They didn't like me
         at first `cause I was the new girl and where, you know, most of the guys, if a new girl comes in, of course they're going to be friendly just because
         it's new blood or whatever.
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         But the girls did not want to have anything to do with me, they're catty.
         It was like I was, you know, invading their territory or whatever.
         Um, so it really took them, probably, I'd say, at least three months before I'd actually consider them my friends because I'd have classes with, um, Stephanie, who is one of my good friends now, but she did not talk to me for the first three months.
         I mean, and she even admitted that she didn't like me because I was new.
         Even though I don't think it was because of anything I'd done because I had hardly said two words since I didn't know anybody, but, um, they were real coy towards me, you know.
         But it-
      
      
         Why do you think that is?
         Why do you thing do you think that's just girls in general?
      
      
         Actually, I think it is most girls in general.
         It's just a natural thing if you, if you have certain guy friends that you become very possessive over and you see someone, whether it's their new girlfriend or their new best friend or whatever, comes in and takes up some of your time, I think it's just human nature to get jealous and to kind of put up a, you know, an offensive front to whoever the invader or the intruder is.
         So, I think I've probably done the some time in my life, so I don't have any hard feelings towards them.
      
      
         And you feel it was a good thing, overall, the whole experience of moving and being the new kid and-?
      
      
         Absolutely!
         I wouldn't trade that experience for the world because there are too many people that I know who are very sheltered from not only new experiences, from like new ideas and new situations, and so I think it's kind of a blessing that I had the chance to go through this in the kind of, um, be the new kid and see what it was like to be the outsider and to not be in the in crowd, you know.
         Because, I mean, I think a lot of people who have never been on the outside don't understand what it's like to be kind of the kid that's, you know, not "Mr. Popularity," you know?
         Who doesn't have all the friends and who doesn't get all the attention, and so it was nice because, you know, in school, like, I had a good circle of friends I was always, you know, an athlete, or whatever, so, you know, I received the attention.
         But for those few months that I was the outsider, I really got to see what it was like, you know, to not be, you know, cool, or whatever.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Now I understand.
         Is there anything else you'd like to say or?
      
      
         Umm, other than it was a good experience, that's about it.
      
      
         Well thank you so very much for sharing your experience with us.
      
      
         You're very welcome.
      
   

   
   
      
         Hi, how are you?
      
      
         Fine.
      
      
         What's your name?
      
      
         Caroline Silva.
      
      
         Caroline Silva, I'll be asking you some questions.
         Uh, what stories do you remember that your family members used to tell you?
      
      
         Um, stories about when they were little.
      
      
         Any that you remember?
      
      
         Not really because I was, I think I was too young when they told me that, I don't exactly remember.
         But, like my mother's mother, my grandmother she like told us about how when she was very young and her mother die, so she had to go and work and help her family.
      
      
         
         And from when you were little do you remember somebody telling stories, other stories?
      
      
         Um.
         
         My mom used to tell us stories at night and they were sort of like be made up stories that she like made up sort of about the day so she used me and my sister's name in it and they'd be funny, because they weren't true but they had, like I was a character in them, and so was my sister
         and we can be anything from animals to humans.
         And it sort of told about what you did during the day and how you acted.
      
      
         Did you enjoy those stories?
      
      
         I did!
      
      
         Um, do you remember at what time she used to say that?
      
      
         Well,
         before we went to bed.
         But if it was, like too late already well, we didn't listen to them, we couldn't, she didn't tell them to us, because we had to go to bed, but whenever she had time she would tell us.
      
      
         Do you remember how your bedroom used to look when you were that, that young?
      
      
         No.
      
      
         Do you remem--
      
      
         \\ But I shared it with my sister.
         I know that.
         \\
      
      
         Uh huh.
      
      
         I think we lived in an apartment.
         And.
         --
      
      
         What city?
      
      
         Miami, Florida.
      
      
         Uh huh.
         So you are from Miami?
      
      
         Yes.
         
      
      
         What about books?
         Do you remember reading books when you were young?
      
      
         Um, in kindergarten at five, my kindergarten teacher Mrs. Thorpe started teaching us how to read, and the alphabet and so we used to have these um, little books that had like a sentence or less per page and it had like a really big, big picture on every single page.
         So if you didn't understand what it said you could sort of comprehend with the picture and that got me interested in reading more.
         So I started reading bigger books little by little.
      
      
         Do you remember the names of those little books?
      
      
         Um, like some of them were like called Sam I Am.
         They didn't have more that a title, probably like three words in it.
         
      
      
         Uh hum.
         So you're saying you don't remember much about the house that you used to live?
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         Do you remember somebody telling you stories when you were little?
         When you were young?
      
      
         Yes.
         I don't remember exactly what the stories were but I know that like the grownups in the house, like during Christmas or reunions or whenever we saw each other, we would talk at the dinner table, and they like told about old times, and we'd laugh
         or any where; in the living room.
      
      
         But you don't remember any about yourself?
      
      
         Yes, um, like they used to tell me stories that went I was little I used to climb everywhere around the house.
         And one of them was that one time I wanted something on top of the bed that couldn't reach and so you said, my mom said to get, to find a way to get it, and so I don't remember what I grabbed, but I grabbed something and I climbed on top of the bed and I grabbed the thing that I wanted and I think they were like surprised because they didn't think that I would actually do it.
         Another one was when I think I was younger than that I was trying to climb up on a couch and my grandfather was like watching me behind me and he kept saying to everybody, "she's going to fall, she's going to fall, she's going to fall, she fell," because I did fall and everybody laughed and I think they took a picture of me when I was like climbing up the couch or whenever I was on that couch.
         But they sort of told me that from climbing all over the couches, I sort of ruined them.
      
      
         Uh oh.
         Do you like to read?
      
      
         Yes!
      
      
         What kind of readings?
      
      
         Fictional books, mainly, like about the future, that like make me think and wonder, and, you know, grab my attention.
      
      
         Will you say that you're a good reader?
      
      
         Yes.
      
      
         Why?
      
      
         Well mainly almost everybody does and I think I do read like really good.
         And like usually, like my sister comes up to me and once I'm done reading a book she'll go like, "How can you read that fast?"
         you know.
      
      
         What you mean fast?
      
      
         Well I can probably get a thick book and finish it in a day.
         It depends how long I like stay on it.
         And so,
         I mean everyone is different.
         Like she can't read that fast, but I can read that fast and understand what's in the book and don't have to read it again.
         Um, so that's what I mean by like I can read fast.
      
      
         Do you have a collection of books or do you have a lot of books at your house?
      
      
         Um, I have a certain collection that's called Animorphs.
         It's like one of those fictional type of futuristic type books and I like to collect them.
         I mean they're really easy books.
         But I like them and the author is K.A. Applegate and they're new, I mean they've been out for a while, but they're new compared to other books that have been out.
      
      
         Do you like to tell stories?
         
      
      
         Well--
         
         
      
      
         To make a story?
      
      
         Well, yeah.
         I mean, sometimes I'm in the mood for it, sometimes I'm not, but I do like it.
      
      
         You like to what?
      
      
         I do, um, like to tell stories.
      
      
         OK.
         Do you, can you describe your bedroom?
      
      
         Um.
         When you walk in the door and you look to your left you see a desk and on the same wall as the door is a closet that's um, two sliding doors that you open and then my bed is horizontal to the room against the wall were my desk is, to the left of the room.
         And then if you look straight ahead from the doorway there is this really big window by the other wall, in front.
         And um, my walls are green.
         My room is rectangular and on my desk I have my collection of books that I was telling you about and
         on the top of my desk I have like stuff that I have collected from where I've been.
         And then in the middle shelf of my desk I have my religious type of stuff.
         
         I had my first communion type of stuff and then on the bottom shelf of my desk I have like my fun stuff, like my books I told you about and these statues that I have and pictures and stuff like that.
      
      
         Thank you very much.
      
      
         OK.
         Pleased.
      
   

   
   
      
         Hi how are you?
      
      
         Fine.
      
      
         What's your name?
      
      
         Ivonne Silva.
      
      
         How old are you Ivonne?
      
      
         Fourteen.
      
      
         Fourteen.
         Ivonne, I'll be asking you some questions.
         Uh, what stories do you remember family member telling you?
         Any family, family member.
      
      
         Uh, about their life, and like my grandmother used to tell me about when she lived in Colombia, South America and she used to go really early in the mornings with a group of people to church, with a group of older girls, and they would go on the bus and they would drink hot chocolate and bread every morning on Sundays.
         And then my dad told me about a time when he climbed up on the window and my grandmother came out and look at him and scared him and he fell down and rolled down the street because it was steep.
         And
         and, he talked about a time that he was trying to cut a tree or something and he cut his knee open.
      
      
         With what?
      
      
         Like an ax.
      
      
         Oh.
         
         Do you remember maybe your grandfather telling you stories?
      
      
         No.
         But I remember when my dad said he fell down and he hit his head in the, like a river because he dived in, and my grandmother dived in the same place and she hit herself there too.
      
      
         When she did that, when she was older?
      
      
         When she was young like teenager.
      
      
         And then later on in life her son did the same?
      
      
         Yeah.
         Yeah.
      
      
         In the same place?
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         Do you remember the name of that place?
      
      
         Poso Azul.
      
      
         Which means?
      
      
         Blue
         pond or something.
      
      
         Very good.
         Um, do you remember stories being told by other family member, maybe your mother?
      
      
         Yes.
         My mom told me stories.
         She would make up stories for us, my sister and I, at bedtime when we lived in Miami and she would tell us stories like, including like characters that were like us but we had different names and stuff, or we would be animals and they would have morals to them at the end and, or we would read books at night before going to bed.
      
      
         So this was in your bedroom?
      
      
         Yes.
      
      
         It was just your bedroom?
      
      
         Yes.
      
      
         Or somebody else's?
      
      
         No.
         Oh, oh it was my sister's and my room.
      
      
         Do you remember how it looked like?
         Can you describe it?
      
      
         Yes.
         It had a bed where you pull another bed out from under it and it had one of those
         like porch outside of it and it was a big room, and when you came in the front door to the apartment it would be down the left hallway.
         It would be the first door on the right.
      
      
         And do you remember stories about maybe somebody else in the family?
         Maybe that you can tell?
      
      
         
         Oh yeah!
         My sister when she was like four, she went into the walk-in closet in my parent's bedroom and she put baby powder all over herself and all over the clothes.
         And also in that same walk-in closet my sister and I, we would go in there and hide from my dad and when he got home from work and we would wait for him to come in and turn on the light and then when he walked in we'd scare him.
         Because we'd be hiding on the shoes and behind the clothes.
      
      
         Very good.
         Um.
         Do you like reading?
      
      
         Yes.
         I read a lot.
      
      
         What kind of books do you like to read?
      
      
         All type of books, but I have a collection.
         I collect um, Anne of Green Gables because I like it.
      
      
         Why, is there a favorite book?
         Or are those your favorite ones?
      
      
         I like those, yeah.
      
      
         
         All right, um.
         
         Do you like to tell stories?
      
      
         Yeah.
         I like writing stories and poems and I write them for school a lot and I'm part of a magazine to write stories and poems and we draw too, to put stories that students write in the magazine for school.
      
      
         Um.
         Do you have books now?
      
      
         We have a lot of books.
      
      
         At home?
      
      
         Yeah, we had a lot of different types of books and we have some books from when we were little too.
      
      
         Where do you keep them?
      
      
         Downstairs we have like a playroom is like a big TV room and we keep them down there on one half of it.
      
      
         What about your bedroom?
         Now do you share bedrooms with your sister?
      
      
         No, I have my own room and I have some books in there but not many because most of them are downstairs.
      
      
         Can you describe your bedroom?
      
      
         Yes.
         There is a bed, it's a full bed and it's got a desk and a dresser and a closet and a bunch of stuffed animals.
      
      
         \\ Oh.
         \\
      
      
         Because I like stuffed animals, and it has two windows, and when you walk in, the bed is to your left and so is the dresser and the desk is to your left and right.
         Like, like--
      
      
         What things do you have on your desk?
      
      
         Uh, I have a bunch of things.
         I have pictures of my pets and my family and I have books and I have medals and stuffed animals.
      
      
         OK, um, anything else that you would like to tell us?
         Things you like to do?
      
      
         I like to play my flute in the band.
      
      
         Oh that is nice.
         OK, thank you very much.
      
      
         You're welcome.
         Bye.
      
   

   
   
      
         Patricia Smith, age 59 and I'm from Connecticut.
      
      
         What kind of stories were told to you as a child?
      
      
         We have a family picture of me and my brother and sister sitting on the couch with my mother reading us a story.
         I do not remember what the story was about.
         Um, the stories I remember the most was listening to the radio.
         Um, I don't remember stories from my mother reading them
         .
         It was a stand up big radio, we didn't have a TV at this time, and I sat leaning on the radio listening to my favorite, The Shadow, Only the Shadow Knows a mystery story every week.
         I do not remember being read to with books.
         I remember one night, though, having to walk up the street to the farmhouse to get milk.
         It was Christmastime and it was cold, and being bundled up, I walked at nighttime slowly up the street.
         There was a full moon.
         I slowly looked up at the moon and saw a gold sleigh and Santa approaching the left side of the moon.
         I was surprised and did not believe what I was seeing, so, I paused and I gazed in awe that I actually saw Santa and the sleigh!
         I couldn't get it out of my mind as I continued my walk.
         When I got home, I told everyone and don't remember any responses.
         I was told by a friend there was no Santa, that really bothered me so I asked my dad one night during the Christmas season.
         He had a way of speaking, with a strong voice that we never questioned when he used it.
         And when he, when I told him what my friend said he sat me down saying, "That is not true, there is a Santa," in that voice we never questioned.
         "Your friend is wrong and let me tell you why."
         And he just proceeded with his loving logic and questions to prove to me there really was a Santa.
         Everything he said made sense to me and I could feel myself well up inside with pride and love for my father and I felt so good and happy that my friend was now wrong and I was right and there really was a Santa, and that Santa was in my heart and mind now.
      
      
         Which one was your favorite story?
      
      
         That was my favorite story, it was the most impactful story.
         And to this day, I can still remember feeling so proud that my dad convinced me and all those feelings of believing that that was true and I can still feel that today.
      
      
         Did you read books or tell stories to your children?
      
      
         Yes, I did both.
         I read books and told stories.
      
      
         What kind of books did you read to your children?
         Where did you read them?
         Why did you read them?
      
      
         Well, uh.
         Children's books, um, like Dr. Seuss, and I did a lot of books on feelings, about being sad, happy, neat, and angry and things like that, um, so they could understand the feelings at those levels.
         And um, I got books, like transactional analysis, which they called TA for tots, and "I'm OK, You're OK," um, a gamut of fairytales, uh, like The Three Little Pigs and things like that, every, I love children's books and every children's book I could get, I brought for the kids.
         
         Um, I had many, many books for my children.
         Uh, the books were always available to them.
         I read to them at bedtime uh, in their beds, other times they sat in my lap during the day, um, like going over the pictures, the sounds and the tone of voice, uh, through me, um, as to what the character was feeling, scared, happy, angry.
         When I felt like it um, it would be effective and my children's behavior said, "They were really into this story," at that point then I would add my own words and make up more of what had caught their interest.
         Um, being each character myself as I read added, added more excitement for them and for me.
         Sometimes we'd lay on the carpet and read and I'd follow their interest, when to stop and when to start, and when sometimes, to turn the page.
         It was all up to their interest.
         Um, I read at bedtime as a calming down for all of us, being together and ending our day.
         Sitting on the couch with them, uh, gave me the feeling of closeness and the uh, children's closeness or bonding with me.
         Um, and when we read was whenever anybody wanted to read and sometimes I would introduce a new book to them and say I have a new story for you.
      
      
         OK.
         What kind of stories did you tell your children?
         Do you recall any of them?
      
      
         Oh yeah, oh yeah, I recall them.
         I made up stories, um, that I told to my children also.
         They were older and enjoyed scary, uh, scary stories at that time.
         So, I told them scary stories that chilled them.
         At bedtime, um, when all were in the same bed, and that's where they had to be for these stories.
         Um, I usually made up a story according to what they were feeling at different points in their lives.
         Their favorite was "The Wood-Monster," uh, sometimes the kids felt like running away from home and whatever I would pick up with the kids that they were issuing is what I would make a story out of and to get my point across to them too.
         Um, this, this story involved, this "Wood-Monster" story involved kids that uh felt like running away from home and this story involved kids who decided to do just that one late night.
         Um, they sneaked out of their bedroom windows and they all met and went into the woods.
         Um, as they thought this was really cool, and they were sitting under a big tree in the woods, the branches started moving, the kids thinking, uh, that the wind was doing it, but when the branches started to slowly come down and start touching them, they got scared, and the branches were trying to wrap around them, then the trunk of the tree started bending also.
         And they all started screaming, running away.
         They discovered as they ran by each tree in the woods that all the trees were alive and wanting to attach their branches around them.
         There was nowhere they could go to free themselves of this nightmare except home.
         So they finally all decided that this was not the thing and they got back into the house, uh, through their window and felt the safe, warm comfort of their beds and vowed never to do that again.
         And also certain stuffed animals my kids had were, um, were also made alive by me.
         When they got thrown on the floor and not cared about, I made up a story about how the animal felt being treated that way when it loved them so much and wanted to be snuggled up by them at night, I played the animal of course, and then with your arms around it, I still do this once and awhile with my adult children.
         One of my children was really drawn into this story and today she is very sensitive and compassionate with animals.
         Um, I also sent my young adult children Easter bunnies and the loving message that went with it, uh, was from the bunny.
         Like, this bunny talked with me at the store and he was so sweet and loving and really wanted to be with one of you, one of my kids and not left on the shelf in the store all by himself, so I would create that kind of story and attach it to the bunnies and send them to my children.
      
      
         Do you read stories now?
         And If so, what kind?
      
      
         Um, I some of them are made into stories, um, see for the past maybe 25,30 years I've read many new age books, uh, from channeling to personal stories by the authors relating to their major life changes.
         Um, I have read many self-awareness books and management books and books on raising children.
         All of my reading basically involved self-improvement at each level of my growth, um, including spiritual growth.
         I read all of these books to help me be a more effective parent, person, manager, and spiritual being.
         Um, my best reading time was in bed where I had no interruptions, um, and then I could focus on the information.
         And I still send my adult children books on topics I think they could gain deeper insight to.
         
      
      
         What's your favorite book now?
      
      
         Um, my very favorite book is God on a Harley.
         Um, it, through that book it was me going through all the same experiences as the author and I saw more clearly what I needed to do.
      
      
         OK, well thanks Pat.
      
      
         You're welcome.
      
   

   
   
      
         This is the story of how I met my husband.
         It's kind of like a Brady Bunch story.
         I was the lady with the two daughters and he was the man with the two sons.
         We had each been divorced for a while and we each were too busy to do any dating or meeting of perspective mates.
         So my daughter Michaela had a group of friends, affectionately called "The Quail Girls," and his son, Ryan, had a group of friends, I won't tell you what we'd name them, but anyway, they were normal high school seniors, and both of the children were seniors at South Mecklenburg High School at the same time.
         And the boys and girls interacted a lot, they were, uh, they were all friends.
         One of the girls in Michaela's group, Shelle, just got an inspiration one day when she was staring out a window riding down the road, and she said, "Chaela!
         We need to get your mom to meet Ryan Speckman's dad!"
         And Michaela said, "Really?"
         `Cause she was, of course, very protective of her mom.
         So finally, Michaela said, "Well maybe that will work."
         And all of the other girls are saying, "Yeah, yeah, yeah!"
         So that was when the idea was born.
         And for the next few months, Michaela kept saying, "You know, Mom, you need to meet Mr. Speckman."
         And I said, "Now why do I need to meet Mr. Speckman?"
         "Well you need to meet Mr. Speckman because he's single and all he has time for is his job and the boys.
         He's really cute and he's a really nice guy and he's real involved with the kids."
         I said, "Well if he is really cute and he's a really nice guy, then I'm sure that he's got a girlfriend."
         And she said, "No, no, no.
         I know he doesn't.
         I just know he doesn't because the girls say he doesn't and he never goes to the games with anybody, and you need to meet Mr. Speckman."
         So I said, "All right, whatever.
         I'll meet Mr. Speckman."
         So then I would forget about it and the girls would come over and they would say, "Ms. Quinn you need to meet Mr. Speckman."
         And I'm like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah.
         I'll meet Mr. Speckman."
         So, um, a soccer game would come up because the boys played soccer, the Speckman boys played soccer.
         Michaela would say, "How about it?
         Can you go to the soccer game on Thursday night?"
         And I had an evening job and I would say, "Well no I can't go Thursday."
         So then a few more games would go by, um, I could go to the game, but she couldn't go to the game and next time she could go to the game then I couldn't go to the game and she would say, "Well Mr. Speckman wasn't there anyway."
         So this fixture in our house became this Mr. Speckman person.
         So, um, there was, at the end of the sports season, the fall sport season and the spring sport season, at South Mecklenburg there was always, a what they called, a banquet and they didn't serve any food, but for some reason they called it a banquet.
         They had all the children, the students from the fall sports up on the stage to be introduced, get whatever recognition were appropriate, and, um, there was going to be one in early December of 1995.
         And, uh, that was when it was decided since I was going to be there, because Michaela played tennis in the fall, and Mr. Speckman was going to be there, since Ryan and Eric played soccer in the fall that was when this meeting would take place.
         So in order to make sure that I would be there one of the Quail Girls, who lived right around the corner from the Speckmans, said she would come and she would pick me up.
         Michaela couldn't drive me because she had to be there early to be in this program.
         So Michaela helped me pick out what I was supposed to wear and, uh, Wendy came to pick me up.
         And you have to understand, Wendy is this, she's a wonderful girl but she's kind of a silly girl.
         She's always like, "Ha, uh, ha, uh!"
         So Wendy came to pick me up and I was all nervous and everything, which was ridiculous.
         I was, I felt like a high school girl myself.
         And, um, when we got there, uh, we s, sat with Wendy's parents, who, again, live around the corner from Mr. Speckman.
         They said, this is, uh, Wendy's mother said to me, "Oh!
         You're going to meet John Speckman!
         Whew!
         I hope this works out!
         You've got good taste!"
         I'm like, "Oh boy!
         What am I getting myself into?"
         So Wendy and I sat down and were just kind, you know, of chatting.
         She's squirming and looking all around and everything and the program started and it's quiet and all of a sudden she says, "There he is!
         Right over there, right over there!"
         I said, "Sssh!"
         So anyway I got, I got a chance to take a look at Mr. Speckman and, um, he looked just like Michaela had described, so through the whole thing I kind of did an analysis of, you know, do I or do I not want to meet Mr. Speckman?
         And if I do, you know.
         Basically, do I or don't I want to meet Mr. Speckman, but I felt like I would let Michaela and all of the girls down if I did not.
         So after the program was over Michaela came down off the stage.
         And she came and, uh, came with me to the little lobby of the auditorium where they were serving food.
         So all the Quail Girls and I were together and we were having punch and cake or whatever, and the guys and Mr. Speckman were over kind of in another area.
         So, uh, you know, Wendy was saying, "How are we going to do this?
         How are we going to do this?"
         And I said, "Well, you know, if it happens, it happens.
         If it doesn't happen I'll, I'll, you know, it can happen at another time I'm sure.
         We'll be in the same place another time," because minutes went by and nothing happened.
         So I said to Michaela, after about five or 10 more minutes, "You know, maybe this isn't the right time.
         Let's just leave and, and, you know, I'll, I'll just meet him another time."
         And all of a sudden I got this tap on the shoulder and I turned around and I looked up into the eyes of this high school boy and it was Ryan Speckman.
         And he said, "Don't you want to meet him?"
         And I fell in love with Ryan Speckman first, and I said, "Well sure!"
         So he went and he got him and I walked in that direction, and Mr. Speckman came over and said, "Hi!
         You must be Ms. Quinn."
         And I said, "You must be Mr. Speckman."
         So we introduced each other and had a few awkward moments and then we left.
         So the next, th, OK that was the Monday of Thanksgiving week, so I had to work the day after Thanksgiving in the medical clinic where I worked, and it was a crazy, crazy, crazy day, and Michaela called me in the middle of the day, this was on a Friday, and she said, "Guess who called and left a message?"
         And I said, "Who?"
         And she said, "Mr. Speckman!"
         And I said, "You're kidding!"
         And she said, "Are you going to call him?
         Are you going to call him?
         Are you going to call him?"
         So I said, "Yeah I'll call him."
         So I went home that night, called him, left him a message, he wasn't there.
         So a couple of days later, I get home from work again in the evening and there was a message that said, "Call me back, whatever time."
         So I called him back and we arranged to have dinner on that following Friday.
         So I called and talked to Michaela and I said, "Well we're going out to eat."
         And she said, "I knew it!
         I knew it!
         I knew it!
         Ryan came up to me at school and he said, `He called her!
         I think they're going to go out!
         ' " And apparently another one of the Quail Girls worked at Boston Market and some of the boys who were in Ryan's group crossed the serving line and said, "He called her and he's going to ask her out!"
         So everybody knew before I knew that he called me and was going to ask me out!
         So Friday came and we were supposed to go out.
         I came home from work so there was a message and on the voice mail was Shelle, the girl who had this brainstorm to begin with, and she said, "Hi!
         This is Shelle!
         Just wanted to tell you good luck tonight.
         Don't be nervous!
         You'll be fine!"
         And I'm like, "I'm old enough to be your mother, I'm sure I'll be fine!"
         So everybody's eager to find out what's happening on this date.
         So, um, Michaela was going out and I had instructions to call her as soon as I got home, to beep her as soon as I got home so we could discuss the date.
         So we went out to dinner at a place where, Mr. Speckman had asked one of his sons' friends where we should go and he said that's where we should go, and so we went there to eat.
         And the whole evening was talk, the discussion the whole evening was how all the preparation, and all the discussion that was going on with me and the Quail Girls was also going on with John and with all Ryan's friends.
         And they had cleaned out the car, they called him at work and made sure that he was there in time for the date, so, I mean, we had a lovely evening, lovely evening.
         And, um, just talked about how funny it was that these kids were trying to, to make us meet.
         So the next day, um, Michaela, yeah, I called Michaela, and she said, "What did you think?
         What did you think?"
         I said, "You know, he's a very nice man, but he is so busy with his business and with his two boys that I don't even think he's even got time for another date but he, he is very nice.
         But if he asked me out again I'd probably go out again."
         So this was Friday night, early, so the next day I went out and I bought a Christmas tree and I had a lot of errands to do.
         In the afternoon Mr. Speckman calls and said, "Really had a good time last night."
         I said, "I did too.
         It really was fun."
         He said, "I'd like to do it again sometime."
         And I said, "Yeah I would too."
         So we're talking some more, and I said, "I went and got a Christmas tree."
         He said, "What are you going to do this evening?"
         I said, "I'll probably put the Christmas tree up."
         He said, "You know I would really like to go to McAdenville."
         So anyway, I said, "Cool!
         You want to go to McAdenville, we'll go to McAdenville."
         So Michaela came home and I said, "Guess what?
         I'm going to McAdenville."
         And she said, "Oh my God!"
         She called Shelle , Shelle was at the house in five minutes!
         "I can't believe it she's going out with him again!
         You're going out with him again!"
         So we went out again and we went out the next Friday and Saturday and the next Friday and Saturday and the next Friday and Saturday, and meanwhile, all the kids at school are in absolute shock that we liked each other and we were going out, I don't know what they expected.
         And one friend of Ryan's, Brandon said to Michaela one day, "Wouldn't it be weird if your mom and Mr. Speckman got married?
         And like, you moved into that house and you were taking a shower and Ryan, Ryan's your stepbrother and he's going to knock on the ba-, how weird would that be?"
         Michaela told me that and I said, "That is so weird."
         She said, "That is so weird!"
         Well it wasn't long before, um, probably a month or two later, she said to me, "Mom he's wonderful.
         Would you ask him to marry us?"
         Anyway, to make a long story short, about, we met in December of `95.
         February of '96, he asked me to marry, No!
         February of `97 he asked me to marry him.
         June of `97 we got married, and our wedding party was the Quinn girls and the Speckman boys, and the guest list was the Quail Girls and all of Ryan's friends and they all lived happily ever after.
      
   

   
   
      
         This is an interview with Darlene Maurer interviewing Eric St. John.
         So, Eric, would you tell us what stories or book you remember reading as a child?
         What was your favorite story?
      
      
         Uh, my favorite book or stories were the, uh, phew, The Cat in the Hat because I always loved all of the colors.
         And there's always, all of the kids were having a great time while the parents left, and it was like one big, huge flight of fancy and they just go from one thing to another thing and it was like really fun and chaotic and just neat.
         And then, and then it was always like an adventure though because then all of a sudden, toward the end, like the parents are coming back.
         And we all know that if we don't have everything cleaned up you're going to get punished.
         And so it was like, "Can they do it?
         Can they do it?
         Can they get cleaned up in time?
         Are they going to make it?"
         So it's like having a blast and going on a flight of fancy and then coming back to reality and then like not getting caught
         , kind of.
         And they always did.
      
      
         And what age were you when you read this?
      
      
         Oh boy!
         I don't know.
         I was probably anywhere from, anywhere five on up.
         I don't have a lot of memories.
         I can remember four and earlier.
         They come once in a while, but I don't really have anything real strong.
         But, uh, I loved the colors and all the illustrations too, and just the zaniness.
         And then everything's, a little bit later I really I loved reading.
         I would be, this is more like when I was eight, nine, and ten, and 11 I would have a bedtime, and it was always way earlier than I wanted but I would lay, I would have this little lamp I'd put underneath my bedcovers and I would be reading.
         And I would read, I would read like baseball biographies.
         I loved baseball, still do, but, uh, you know, just to read about these famous people and dream about playing sports and being some kind of hero.
         And, uh, every once in a while, I think my dad caught onto that, but, uh, he'd come down and tell me to shut the, shut the lamp off every once in a while.
         But, uh, I'd usually, I just read and read and read.
         I'm surprised I didn't set the whole house on fire with that high intensity lamp.
      
      
         So what baseball hero did you want to be when you grew up?
      
      
         Oh, I wanted to be, uh, Harmon Killebrew because I was from MN.
      
      
         Hmm.
      
      
         He was the famous slugger from MN, played for the Twins.
         And then when I'd play baseball I, I could hit pretty good too, when I was real young.
         I couldn't in high school.
         I became a pitcher.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And they never hit, but, uh, I always loved biographies of, of famous people and events in history as I got older.
         And uh I still have kind of a passion for history and historical type things.
         Uh, golly.
         Also some of these other questions that also leads to the fact that, uh, my brother, you know, I had seven or six brothers and sisters, four until I was 11, and then three more joined the family when I was 11.
         And my, my younger brother was, he's like the most hilarious storyteller.
         And I remember his stories too because he would just make them up, and just, it would just be zaniness.
         And, yet, he was he was really funny too, and he could make faces and really creative even as a little kid.
         He's always the happy-go-lucky kid and I was the oldest.
         But it was a blast to hear him tell stories and then just start building off of them and just go all over the place.
         I guess that's kind of like The Cat in the Hat story too.
         But, uh, that was, I liked him.
         He was a really good storyteller.
         Now a good, as I get older, a really good storyteller is my other brother, who is like really serious.
         You never really catch him really laughing he's always really controlled.
         But he tells a good story with a dry sense of humor, and, uh, golly, he spent his career in the Army still; he just went to Germany.
         But, uh, those are the two best storytellers I know in our family.
         I remember my dad, my dad told us he would tell us stories about his childhood but usually, usually from him that, that doesn't really come until later.
         But, uh, when he would start telling about when he was a teenager some of the, some of the teenaged stuff he and his teenaged brothers did when they worked for their dad's business, my grandfather.
         Uh, I didn't, I never did know him.
         I don't remember him, he died when I was four.
         But it was hilarious just hearing what they did.
         I'm surprised they're still in business.
         Well they were in business.
      
      
         Do you remember any of the stories?
      
      
         Oh yeah.
         How hard it was, how hard it is, you know, way back then they would drive half-ton trucks.
         They were only half-ton trucks and they would drive grain feed around and coal and stuff to the farmers in MN in southern MN.
         But they would, the father, my grandfather wanted to save money so he would rig them up so they'd haul, he'd haul a ton and a half on a half-ton truck.
         And so he was constantly busting up and twisting up axles and he always he would get mad when the sons would do it,-
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         -which usually meant that they weren't being careful.
         But anyway their stories would go on and on about going one mile an hour up a hill taking forever to get somewhere driving getting up, a head up steam in the winter and Bucking snowdrifts is what they called it.
         The snowdrifts would come out into the streets into the road and, uh, this was in rural MN, so half the time you couldn't see where the road was anyway but they would go plowing these snowdrifts, you know.
         It was all fun and teenaged fun until you, until you ended up in a ditch in the middle of a blizzard.
         
         You broke the radiator or twisted an axle of a truck and had to call your dad and tell him what happened.
      
      
         Oh \\ ( ) \\.
      
      
         \\ And top of that \\, of course all the dad, all the grandfather wanted, he wanted the customer serviced.
         
      
      
         Get the job done.
      
      
         Of course, you're in the ditch trying to explain what happened but, uh-
      
      
         Was that your dad or his brother?
      
      
         Both.
      
      
         Both.
      
      
         Both would do that.
         I think my dad was the ringleader he was the oldest also.
      
      
         What year do you think that would have been?
      
      
         That was probably, uh, golly, my dad was born in 1926.
         So when he was 15 and 16ish, probably the early 40s, as best I can tell from those stories because they both went into the service very late; my dad went into the service at the very end of World War II and my uncle served in Korea.
         So that would be about right.
         
         I tell you, I don't really remember anyone reading stories to me that's, although I know my mom did.
         I just have a sense that, that happened but I don't remember specifics.
      
      
         What are some stories that you might tell yourself now that to help you through hard times?
      
      
         Well now, now the two stories would always be, uh, would be the story of Joseph in the Old Testament or, and, or the story of Paul in the New Testament.
         Which is in, Joseph, throughout his life, he was basically done wrong by his brothers and jailed unfairly and so on and so forth, but in the end, no matter, he didn't pay back his brothers even though he was the second most powerful man in Egypt.
         He just said, you know, the moral of the story, and what he said was, "You meant evil for me but the Lord meant good.
         That I might save," you know, "that many might be saved."
         Uh, and that's been a huge, a huge blessing and, and source of comfort.
         Especially in the midst of trials that, uh, no matter what's happening it's being done to, uh, for our, for our good and our, and our, uh, perfection, meaning, meaning that, uh, he's sanding off the edges constantly of us.
         And, uh, also the story of Paul, and, in particular, it's in, I think, it's in the Book of Romans, Romans 8:28 where he says, "All things work for good for those who love the Lord."
         Uh, and Paul, Paul's life is like a Indiana Jones movie, where, at one time, there's 40, 40 Jews, uh, Jewish scholars or whatever had taken the vow of hunger; until they caught him they weren't going to eat.
         So there's 40 guys who hadn't eaten in 30 days chasing them.
         So you reckon at least one of them is going to catch them somehow but he, he managed to elude them all.
         And then of course he spent the rest of his life you know on shipwrecks and in jail and being beat up, and, uh, I'm sure verbally abused and just you name it.
         But he counted all that joy, uh, for the work he was doing for the Lord.
         And, and that no matter what was happening, he was able, he was able to, uh, mentally adjust to the situation knowing that the Lord was working in his life, uh, for his good even if he couldn't always exactly see why.
         So that's it.
         And then, of course, the story of Jesus is the other one, uh, the biggest, uh, just about what he took on himself and that he was, you know, he was betrayed by everybody, his closest, closest friends, uh, and loved ones, uh, down to the last, the last disciple and apostle.
         Well, excuse me, just disciple.
         Uh, and yet he, you know, he still carried through with the Father's will, uh, and, and kept his composure and, and his perspective and focused no matter what.
         So those are the three that, no matter what the situation, there'll be something in those three lives that speak to me that I will repeat to myself, no matter what.
      
      
         Through difficult times?
      
      
         The harder it gets the more I will reflect on those lives and go back to the passages that talk about their lives.
      
      
         OK.
         Sounds like you get a lot of strength from your faith in Jesus.
      
      
         I get all of it, all of it from there.
         It happened three years ago and it's been amazing journeys I'm looking forward to the rest of it.
      
      
         Umm that's great, that's great.
         Is there anything else you'd like to share?
      
      
         That's about it I think.
      
      
         OK Eric, thank you.
      
      
         You're welcome.
      
      
         I appreciate it.
      
   

   
   
      
         OK.
         My name's Carmen Stack and I'm just going to tell a little bit about myself.
         Um, I was born in Charlotte, NC and I moved to Monroe, um, which is about forty-five minutes east of Charlotte, um, when I was about three.
         And I've grown up there pretty much all my life.
         I moved back to Charlotte to go to college and stayed there for four years and am still there.
         But, um, OK, but I live with my parents right now.
         I moved back in after I graduated college and I have a sister, she lives there, too.
         She's in high school.
         Her name is Ivy and she's going to turn seventeen in a couple weeks.
         And my grandmother lives next door and my grandfather works across the street from where we live so, we're all really close and pretty tight and, um, I'm real, I'm closer with my grandmother, um, which is my mom's mother, and, um, we do a lot of stuff together, go shopping, and go to lunch, and stuff everyday.
         So, um, but anyway, I guess I can tell a story about when I was little.
         I, OK, I, um, I have a lot of cats and I have a lot of dogs and so I love animals a lot.
         And, um, when I was probably about eight years old my mom and I, um, well we had two dogs, one was a Russian Wolfhound and one was just a little mutt-dog.
         But, um, we left them there by themselves with, uh, well like a bowl of food out, which usually we don't do, but we were going to go get some lunch and, um, we were gone for probably about twenty minutes.
         And we came back and, Mongoose was the little one and Tanya was the bigger dog, uh, but when we came back, we saw that Mongoose, uh, was bleeding from her eyes.
         Tanya had ripped her eye out, had bitten her eyeball out, um obviously over the food that we had left out on the floor.
         And so, obviously I was totally devastated and my mom was, too and so we rushed her to the vet and, um, they, everything was OK.
         Like they were able to save her but they couldn't put her eye back in, so they just kind of sewed it up and eventually it grew hair back over it.
         
            And, uh, she just had one eye with hair covering the other side.
         So it was pretty, it was funny, but she lived for another six years at least.
         So, but she was a good dog.
         And, but she did fine after that with just one eye, but, um, let's see I guess-
      
      
         Do you have any memories about many trips you used to take when you were little?
         Like to the beach or something?
      
      
         Um, yeah, well, um, we, my aunt Bebe had a beach house.
         Well, they always had like a condo that they had rented, or they owned a couple, um, when I was little.
         And, this was on my mom's side, and we would always, it would be like my aunts and my cousins and my grandmother.
         My, my grandfather died before I was born.
         Uh, he died when my mom was probably about eighteen so I never got to see or meet him.
         But, um, all of us and my mom and my sister and my dad and everybody would go to the beach and, um-
      
      
         What was it Myrtle Beach?
      
      
         Yeah, we'd go to Myrtle Beach.
         And, um, we would stay for probably about a week and we just had, we all had the best time.
         We, all the cousins were just really close, like we all were probably about the same age except for my sister, she was, she's seven years younger than me so-, and everybody else is older than me.
         I have a cousin that's, um, 31 now and Tara is, Rachel's 31, Tara's 28, Michael's 24, I'm 23 and my sister is 17.
         So, but, anyway, um, we all, we all got along really good and it was just, it was like one of the better times that we all had, that we all spent together for the year.
         And when it was time to go to the beach together it was just like, it was like great!
         We couldn't ever replace it.
         So, but, uh, I guess that's the-
      
      
         What would you do when you were at the beach?
         What was your favorite place?
      
      
         Well, we would all, well our favorite place, I mean we were pretty young, so our favorite place was like the Pavilion or going to walk on the strip or something.
         But, um, we, you know, during the day it was always the beach, going to the beach and playing on the beach, and laying out and then going shopping at the, um, like Broadway at the Beach or, um, Barefoot Landing.
         And we'd usually shop during the day and then at night we'd sit, well, food is like the main thing for our family.
         We center everything around eating dinner so, or eating a dinner, breakfast, dinner, or lunch.
         So, but, um, at night we'd always go to dinner and, um, to the Pavilion or else to go to the Grand Prix or, is that what it's called?
         And, um, stuff like that.
         Like the adults would always take us places and let us go and ride rides and stuff like that and we'd all go together as a big group and it was just a lot of fun.
         We were all really close and we still are.
         But, um-
      
      
         Was it, your, your grandmother does she, she sort of, you said, she kind of heads up the whole thing?
      
      
         Oh yeah.
      
      
         Sort of the matriarch?
      
      
         Yeah, she definitely is.
         She's like, she heads everything, like-
      
      
         Is she from Charlotte?
      
      
         Yeah well, yeah.
         She's from Charlotte.
         She was born and raised in Charlotte.
         And, uh, so, you know, she had all her, she had three children.
         And, um, my grandfather was, he's from Charlotte, too and all his family.
         And, um, but yeah, my grandmother, she's like the head of everything.
         She makes sure that we're all together for Thanksgiving and Christmas and Labor Day and New Year's Day and everything.
         She just always wants everything to be at her house and kind of be centered around her.
         So after she's gone I don't really know what we're going to do.
         It'll be kind of hard for us.
         But, ah, she's 74 and she's still going strong but actually yesterday she had a small stroke but she's, she's OK.
         She's better today.
         She's been in the hospital, but, um, she, they're just kind of giving her some physical therapy and stuff right now, just to kind of make sure she'll do OK.
         But she's strong.
         She'll make it through.
      
      
         You said, uh, you were telling me, she's, uh, got some funny sayings that she says and stuff?
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         She's got some funny, like when-.
         You tell it!
      
      
         
         Oh wait, I'm trying, I think.
         I can't remember.
         Um, like-
      
      
         It's not worth something, something-
      
      
         Oh, um, yeah, but my grandmother she, yeah, she's got some funny sayings.
         Like she'll, well she, when she's referring to my cousin Michael, he's kind of like, he's kind of the, I guess, the black sheep of the family.
         You know, just, he's my cousin and he's a year older than me but he can't, he can't keep a job and he's just got a-.
         He fails a lot at pretty much everything he does.
         But she always says that he's not worth the powder to take to blow his ass away!
         
      
      
         So, But, um, you know, it's pretty funny, of course, he doesn't, he doesn't think it, it's funny but she, that's her favorite thing to say.
         But she, she'll about anything to anybody and it's kind of embarrassing sometimes.
      
      
         Straight shooter?
      
      
         But, yeah, she's just, she's straight on with you.
         She'll tell you like it is and if you don't like it then that's just too bad.
         But we've come to realize that's her and that's just the way it's going to have to be.
         But, um, um, so my next story, I guess I want to talk about, uh, I guess I'll move on to kind of high school era.
         Um, we were, it was, I guess there were probably about maybe seven or eight of us, but I was the only girl.
         I hung out with a lot of my guy friends.
         We were always out kind of doing "boy stuff," and I guess I wasn't really like a tomboy but I did like to go fishing and hang out with the guys and stuff.
         But anyway, um, we were riding, um, there were probably about eight of us, and we were riding in the back of the truck.
         And I, I was in the back.
         And, uh, you know, I just kind of, it was Andy's truck and he was driving.
         And, um, we were going to Lake Twitty, and I kind of just got volunteered into going with everybody.
         So we were going cat fishing, but, and the guys had some beer.
         And, um, so anyway, we were just riding along and we pulled into, uh, and, oh!
         Something that I left out, Daniel had a light that he had, would, like a big flashlight that he was shining, and, um, not a flashlight, a spotlight and it had a blue light in it, and he was kind of flashing it around and just playing around with it.
         And, um, we pulled into the road that takes us to the lake and all of a sudden we, a car followed us, uh, followed in behind us and it was like a 300ZX.
         And, um, we pulled in and we stopped and he got out and but, just he was just kind of, we couldn't see him because he had, he had his lights on, his brights.
         And, um, he said, "Why don't you, why don't you point that thing over here to see what I got?"
         And, uh, he had, he had a gun.
         And well, come to find out he was a police officer but he was off-duty and he was in an unmarked car.
         And, uh-
      
      
         Monroe?
         Monroe police?
      
      
         Yeah.
         Monroe police.
         And, uh, so he had pulled us over because we were flashing the light.
         And, um, so, you know, Daniel said that, you know, he was sorry.
         He didn't realize that we were causing any trouble.
         But, um, he had told us that, um,
         .
         So, he says to us that, um, he shows us his gun and he said that he had, he almost shot us.
         And he acted really nervous and jittery and he acted like, he came up to the car kind of close and he acted like he did want to shoot us.
         And, um, he, but he didn't really care that we had, that we had, um, beer and he didn't mind that we were all under age or he didn't even know because none of us were of age.
         And so, you know, he didn't act like he really wanted to fill any papers on us or anything.
         It was kind of, you know, it was just like it was really scary.
         We didn't really know, really know what to expect from him.
         We didn't know that he was a cop.
         We didn't find this out till probably about 10 or 15 minutes later, until he was about to leave.
         But, um, he just was really nervous acting.
         He, he was definitely scaring me because he acted like he wanted something to happen.
         He was really mad at us for doing that.
         But yet he wasn't calling any backup or anything like that.
         And he was alone and he just seemed kind of scary.
         But we found out probably about a year later, or we saw on the news that was a year later, he had been arrested for, um, murdering a girl, um, in, in Monroe.
         And he pulled her over and murdered, and found out or got arrested for murder.
         And, uh, now he's in NC State penitentiary.
         So I guess we were lucky that night.
         But-
      
   

   
   
      
         I've never been timid in my life.
         This is a change of pace for me.
         I grew up in a small town east of Charlotte, Hamlet?
         There are only 5,000 people there, and in the 50's it was a great place to grow up.
         It's a railroad town and most people work for the railroad, including my dad.
         So we're all pretty much on the same economic plain.
         There wasn't too much difference between anyone.
         The schools were not integrated at that time, which was just a way of life.
         We didn't think of it as right or wrong, it was just the way things were.
         The biggest prejudice that we saw exercised at the schools, the children that lived out of town were called bus children, and they were brought into town on a bus, and they were grouped together in a class.
         They had to come earlier in the morning and had to stay later in the afternoon, and most of them were poor, because if you tried to farm in the sand hills of NC, it was pretty hard to make a living.
         The soil is not particularly fertile.
         The freedom that we had as children is unheard of today.
         There was nowhere in town that you couldn't ride on a bicycle or walk, as long as you told your mother where you were going and you were home by dark.
         I wish that my children, growing up in a different age where they didn't have this kind of safety and where everybody in the town didn't look out for them, could have had this experience of this much freedom.
         To be able to go into the woods on the edge of town and play without anybody worrying about me was a wonderful gift.
         And we had time to explore and imagine and do things, without adult supervision, which were totally innocent and great fun.
         
         There were many interesting characters in this small town, two of whom lived across the street from me.
         They were the Lann twins.
         These were identical twins who had dressed alike probably since the, they day they were born.
         By the time I was a child, they were well into middle age and were the most incredibly nosy people in this entire town.
         They went to the same church we went to, First Methodist, and they sat on a certain pew and woe be unto the person who sat, that chose to sit on the Lann twins' pew.
         They watched everybody's coming and going when we, we kids on the street became teenagers.
         They could tell you who everyone was dating and, if you were a girl, whether or not you got a goodnight kiss under the porch light and probably reported it at every bridge table they sat at for the next several weeks.
         Probably my most memorable occasion with the Lann twins was when my mother died.
         Um, my mother was very adamant about never telling her age.
         She was a good deal older than most people thought she was and she just didn't ever want that to be made public.
         She had made me promise that when she died that her age would not be put in the newspaper.
         She had been with us during her last illness, about six or eight weeks, where we were living in VA, and died there.
         When we came home for the funeral we had not been in the house more than five minutes and here come the Lann twins across the street.
         The first words out of their mouths, or out of one of them's mouths and their names were Augusta and Virginia, and I never knew who was who, so I don't know who asked the question.
         The first thing one of them asked was, "Kitty's age was not in the newspaper, how old was she?"
         I said, "Kitty didn't tell her age when she was alive and I just don't think we're going to start now."
         They were not even put off and did not even slow down.
         The next thing they wanted to know was I going to sell the things in mother's house and how much did I want for the mirror above the fireplace.
         It, I guess it was somewhat reassuring even then, that it didn't matter that they didn't express sympathy, but that some things never change and always stay the same.
      
   

   
   
      
         To hear your voice.
      
      
         I can hear my voice but not at through that.
      
      
         ( )
      
      
         You're not plugged in yeah maybe you are plugged in.
      
      
         I plugged in.
      
      
         Do I hear myself?
      
      
         Maybe sound a little bit different?
      
      
         Oh it always sounds different but.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         
      
      
         Yeah, oh well.
         Yeah?
         Yeah OK.
         Do you want me to tell my story now?
      
      
         Yes please.
      
      
         OK.
         I am a native of Charlotte as was my mother and her parents before her.
         Mother always enjoyed telling me stories of how she spent her summer as, summers as a young child.
         Mother was raised not far from the square in Charlotte which is a very center of Trade and Tryon Street.
         She had neighbors and a church close by and the trolley stopped not far from her home.
         She and her sister could walk to school.
         When summer arrived with the steamy hot weather the family would pack up and go out to the country to the river the Catawba River.
         This meant packing a tent with cots for sleeping, pots to use over an open fire, dishes because of course there were no paper product at that time, food, and most important of all a cane pole, pole to go fishing.
         They would set out in an old car up Highway 16 to Shuffletown then down a long dirt road till they came to the creek bed.
         There they would set up camp near the creek for washing a spring for drinking the river was not far down the road.
         As I was growing up Mother would often show me the very spot that they camped.
         My great grandmother, who was in a big wooden wheelchair, paralyzed with arthritis, would go on this camping trip for the whole summer also.
         Mother and her sister spent their days playing in the woods, wading in the creek, swimming on the scuppernong vines and sometimes picking berries and going fishing.
         When the rain came my grandfather would tell Mother not to touch the tent with her finger because then the tent would leak so of course Mother would lay on her cot looking up at the tent close to her and touch it with her finger a slow drip would come and Mother would be in trouble but not as much trouble as when she was playing on the muddy creek bank and lost her shoe the only pair she had.
         Thank goodness this happened shortly before their return to the city where she could got another pair.
         All of Mother's life she loved to go barefooted she loved to go fishing for the small perch that she would fry with grits and the rain falling at night.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         When they were camping at the river my grandfather would trap beavers and there were beaver dams.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         The edge of the lake of the river.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Like the Catawba River and he would trap beaver and then he would come and he would skin them.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And he would hang up their hides.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And let them dry and then he would tan them with some process.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And bring them back to Charlotte and, sell them but in an, a, especially to the haberdasheries is that a hot, oh a hat manufacturer.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         New.
      
      
         OK?
         A hat maker.
         And uh because at that time the ladies liked to wear beaver hats.
      
      
         Oh yeah I see.
      
      
         And so that was a way of getting added income.
      
      
         Oh so they are beavers in the Catawba River?
      
      
         They were at that time.
      
      
         \\Now they are no longer anymore?
         \\
      
      
         \\Her grandfather trapped them all.
         \\
         
      
      
         So he trapped the beavers just for the hide to make hats so he could make fashionable hats for the ladies.
      
      
         To sell them to for whoever would purchase them well.
      
      
         Oh, uh-huh.
         Yes, I see.
      
      
         A big customer was the hat makers.
      
      
         They were very slippery right?
         The beaver hide.
      
      
         No it's uh, well it might be slippery, but it's furry.
      
      
         Uh, but it's sparkling, it look very elegant, um.
      
      
         Probably.
      
      
         The men wore hats made out of beaver too.
      
      
         Did they?
      
      
         Why, I never see a beaver in the river.
         
      
      
         It has a big flat tail.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         And they build dams.
      
      
         Um, oh.
      
      
         And he used some type of a trap.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         That he fashioned himself.
      
      
         He pretty big right?
         Then they are very big.
         You cannot fish
         oh.
      
      
         The tail make it that big.
      
      
         \\The tail just the tail would be that big\\
      
      
         No, no, no.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         The body about that big and the tail about that big.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         All together.
      
      
         Oh it's like a big fish?
      
      
         Well it's a mammal.
      
      
         Oh.
         
         It's like a dolphin right?
      
      
         No.
      
      
         No it's like a rodent.
      
      
         It's more like a rat that live in the water.
      
      
         Live in the water?
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         They cut the trees down.
      
      
         \\Oh.
         \\
      
      
         \\Yeah\\ and they build dams to block.
      
      
         Oh.
      
      
         ( ) house the entrance way is beneath the water.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         So they get have to dive down and come up inside their house.
      
      
         Um, well-- KT: But this place is still out.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         On the Catawba River.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Still there it's not a uh dusty dirty road now it's a paved road now with several very, very expensive it's still preserved some the old beautiful houses on it.
         Shuffletown is still there.
         Highway 16 is still there.
         But this was the entertainment and I don't know how grandmother did it looking after her mother in a wheelchair.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         They weren't of course was no running water.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         No facilities whatsoever they weren't in a campground.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         They were just out by creek.
      
      
         They had power, right, electricity.
      
      
         No water, kerosene.
      
      
         No, no.
      
      
         No water?
      
      
         No water other than what you would get from the spring.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         No electricity.
      
      
         Uh, well that's amazing then that they could camp with no water and no electricity.
      
      
         \\Well they could get their water from the spring.
         \\
      
      
         Get water out of the creek.
      
      
         Yeah, um--
      
      
         And the tent was a big tent and I suppose it was made out of canvas.
         And they slept on cots.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Like an army cot that type of thing off the ground.
         And Mum said the tent would be very close to her face.
      
      
         Oh, oh yeah.
      
      
         You know and she would lay there and listen to the rain.
         She knew that her father said, "Do not touch."
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Because if you touch it, it made it drip.
      
      
         Uh-huh \\ yes, yes.
         \\
      
      
         \\ It would leak in that spot.
         \\
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And she would be on her cot and she would touch right up there.
         
      
      
         She's naughty.
         
      
      
         And then it would start and then it would start dripping.
         
      
      
         Oh yes, that's true.
         
         Well.
      
      
         OK that's one 15 minutes, but I don't, that's about it.
      
      
         She was born in Charlotte and raised
         and lived all her life in Charlotte.
         Her, uh, she lived in a city until the late 1920's when, uh, her father my grandfather lost his job.
         And the next job that he found was with the Charlotte Water Department and uh, had to move to the Water Department and that was about six miles from the center of the city and it was like the country.
         It was definitely the country.
         Most of the roads were dirt roads and uh, was far away from any public transportation.
         So Mother had to adjust to becoming used to a being a country girl.
         And
         one day in the summertime her good friend named Jackie had come from the city.
         Jackie had been a neighbor of Mother's and she had come to from the city out to the country to visit with Mother.
         And they were playing and they decided that they would go and pick up Jackie's sister who was at Jackie's house in the city.
         Well they had a little cart; had two wheels on it.
         And they hooked it up to a pony and they went riding towards Charlotte in the pony cart.
         They got just to the edge of the city, uh, when something spooked the pony and the pony reared up and when he reared up the uh cart turned over.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And the pony took off running.
      
      
         Oh.
      
      
         Well it ended up with the pony found his way with the cart behind it back to the house out in the country.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         But there was Mother and Jackie halfway between town and halfway between the country house having to walk all the way, and, of course, they were all scuffed up and their clothes were all dirty
         and they were reprimanded when they uh arrived back home.
      
      
         \\ Oh, so the pony ( )\\.
      
      
         \\ Because they were not supposed to do it.
         \\
      
      
         Um, the cart got turned over and the pony found his own way back.
      
      
         \\ Yes the pony found, own way back.
         \\
      
      
         \\ While your mother and Jackie\\ were just left in the middle of the way and have to walk all the way back.
         
      
      
         \\ That was on the\\.
      
      
         \\ That was all the transportation.
         \\
      
      
         That was on the west side--
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         --of Charlotte.
      
      
         OK.
      
      
         OK.
      
   

   
   
      
         ( ) I hope it come out well.
      
      
         Well, we will tell a story about the, my mother and her sister and my grandfather, grandmother and the other five children went down to Chattanooga, where they had been raised in a place called Sequatchie Valley and my grandfather worked for the railroad.
         Uh so they had families and friends and they would go back and forth and visit and drive from Charlotte to Chattanooga, TN and back.
         Now it takes about five hours; used to take about a day and a half, I suppose.
         Um, the one day, were coming back, coming down the highway, uh they ran into some chickens and evidently hit a chicken and drove them back to Charlotte some distance, and when they go home from GA, coming back through GA, they got out of the car and there was a chicken, uh dead up against the radiator of the car.
         So naturally they got out of the car, took the chicken, and plucked the chicken, and boiled, uh, it, and cooked it, and had it for supper that night.
         
         The other is a story about our history of, I was married, um, Kaye and she seemed a quiet young lady from well-reserved family Presbyterian heritage.
         And later in life I found that her father when he was a young man rode a motorcycle.
         And in those days people that rode motorcycles around Charlotte were probably more rambunctious sort.
         He had an uncle out in CA, and so he rode his motorcycle from Charlotte, NC up to CA, um, not sure but maybe in Los Angeles area.
         And there he went in search of his uncle.
         His uncle had been into some kind of mischief and had been put in jail.
         He was serving on what we used to call chain gang and take your leg, put a clip around it and chain a ball on one end and then give you a shovel or rake or a pick he'd go out and maintain the highways.
         Well my wife's father found where his uncle was located and where he was working So in an opportune time he rode his motorcycle and got his uncle to hop on the back of the motorcycle and they headed for NC.
         And so, he helped his uncle escape the chain gang and after they got back in NC his uncle became sick, and within about three months, uh died from tuberculosis.
         And that's a story of my wife side of family not a story from my side of the family.
         RECORDING PAUSED THEN RESUMED
      
      
         In the early part of.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         To, uh, that didn't have orphanages and things and so when a family, parents would die or someone couldn't take care of the children.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         They would, uh, give them to another family to raise.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         So my great grandfather, uh, adopted grandfather--
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         --by common law.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         He had some other brothers and sisters, and they went to other homes, but when his parents died.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         My great grandfather did not have any children.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         Great grandmother did not have any children so they adopted my grandfather and they had a large farm, uh, and my great grandfather was very industrious.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         And so they farmed the farm and then they set up a touring company and they bought automobiles and they would go up to NY and pick people up and drive them down to FL.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         For vacation back and forth and it was a time when they didn't have glass windows in the car they had what we called "isinglass" which was not plastic but was made out of a \\material \\.
      
      
         \\ Oh.
         \\
      
      
         That rolled up.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         Or that they could hang a--
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         So they would drive the folks back and forth from FL and then he created a construction company and in the First World War.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Went out and built the roads to go to a large camp that was here in Charlotte.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         And so my father and my grandfather at that time, uh, were in involved in laying the, putting the road.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         Into a military camp.
         Uh my grandfather had seven boys and three girls so they had a very large family
         they all worked on the farm
         and he educated his, most of his children, my father went to the seventh grade and quit school.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         But his other brothers and sisters went on through school and went to uh, uh college.
         \\One\\
      
      
         \\Uh.
         \\
      
      
         One studied to be a doctor, there was an electrician, a minister.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         There was a banker.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Uh, and so they had different positions but the tradition of my great, great grandfather and grandfather carried on to the children and my father who was not very well education.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Was an industrious man and he developed his own company.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Made his own way in life and became a member of school board.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         He went to the seventh grade and quit, and yet when he, um was older, and in business--
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         --he was chairman of the local school board.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Where he went to school, although he never graduated
         , and also the next two higher schools.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         He was on those boards.
      
      
         Oh.
         
      
      
         He used to kid and say that he went to, uh--
      
      
         Several schools.
      
      
         No he, he would go they would ask him, when the businessmen would ask him what fraternity he was a member of.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And he would always say "Hodskins" which was the name of the school where he where went.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         Up to the seventh grade.
         
      
      
         And they'd say, "What Greek letter is that?"
         and he'd say, "It's not Greek it's Southern."
         
         Hodskins fraternity.
      
      
         Uh.
         
      
      
         They kidded a lot in the family, played practical jokes on one another.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         My father bought a mule that wouldn't--
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         --work for anyone but him.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And he would rent out the mule for people to plow their gardens and they would be so frustrated they would take the mule off to plow their garden and the mule wouldn't do anything.
         
         And they would bring him back home and fuss at him.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         Then he would laugh and give them their money back
         .
         My great, my grandfather--
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         --developed the farm they were using into a residential area.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And he was good at doing things with his hands and some business but he took a lot tried to be a banker and he couldn't be banker because he built homes for people then financed the homes.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And uh he took the second mortgage.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And when the Depression came along back in the 1930's, uh, all those homes were taken over by the banks and he was left without anything and he was destitute.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         When he died he was very poor.
      
      
         Oh.
      
      
         But he had been fairly wealthy along the way.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         In that community ( ).
      
      
         And he named the streets in the community for his children he named, the name, the name of the community was Thomasborough which he named after the family.
      
      
         Thomas.
      
      
         Tom.
      
      
         They had, uh, a large, uh, home on the peak of the hill.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And, uh, they would ring a big dinner bell.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And the women would prepare for the workers and maybe they would have 50 workers come back and eat lunch behind the, um, house.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Out on the grass so when my grandmother and grandfather died the oldest son came through.
         He took the dinner bell and carried it off to his house he never used the dinner bell but it was a large bell like a church bell.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         Uh, they met together as a community and they founded a church and they met in a place called the Cannery.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         They built a large building put in pots to cook with and the people who had local farms could go there.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         And cook their food and put them in cans and jars.
      
      
         Uh- huh.
      
      
         And so it was a cannery and they started meeting at the cannery.
      
      
         Oh.
      
      
         Uh and then later built, built the church there in the community.
      
      
         Oh.
         It seems I don't know much about my family's history tree because since people choose not to tell stories I hear people choose to preserve the history and tell the stories so since that everybody here could tell stories about their family grandfather great grandfather well.
      
      
         And the house his great grandfather lived in had a step.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Out front that was made of slate.
      
      
         Uh, slate?
      
      
         Slate.
      
      
         Yes.
      
      
         And it that it's carved 1785.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         That it could have been well that's what was that's what's in it and that's our front step at the front door.
      
      
         Oh.
         You move it here the slate?
      
      
         Uh-huh you'll have to look at it.
         It's a step and it has in it is it 1785?
      
      
         Oh.
      
      
         Not quite sure.
      
      
         That would have been your great grandfather.
      
      
         It would have been before me.
      
      
         Way, way back but it was at your great grandfather's house.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         The house yeah.
      
      
         And the house burned down.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         And that was one of the few things that uh.
      
      
         Uh-huh.KT: A piece of slate couldn't burn.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         And Lamar's mother and father had it at their house out in the yard just on the ground at a tree
         .
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         So when we built this house we made our, we planned it so.
      
      
         Uh.
      
      
         It was the length of this piece of slate so that's from his great grandfather's house.
      
      
         My grandfather's house in front of the it's like a yard square yard and at the end at the gate there is a pair of stone lions.
      
      
         Oh.
      
      
         And that's are very popular in China.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Lions seem to be the--
      
      
         The male and the \\ female with the paw?
         \\
      
      
         \\ Yeah the male and the female\\ yeah with a ball.
      
      
         A ball.
      
      
         Yeah One is, uh, holding the ball with \\ a paw.
         \\
      
      
         \\ A paw.
         \\
      
      
         The other is--
      
      
         Holding it.
      
      
         Having the ball in the mouth.
      
      
         Oh.
      
      
         Or it seems to be like it seems to be protecting the prosperity and also, uh, just a sign of peace and prosperity and dignity for the, the family I think we have long history but nobody tells the story.
         
      
      
         I'm sure they do ( ) much further back than our ancestors.
      
      
         That's because the, the, you remember, uh, I don't know whether you went to that park or not.
         That park very small but with a lot of, of handwriting Asian handwriting carved on, on slate too you, \\you didn't go\\ to the park.
      
      
         \\ In.
         ( ) \\
      
      
         Not it has a lot of flowers?
      
      
         \\ ( )\\
      
      
         \\ Lotus\\ it should it should be called Lotus Park.
      
      
         \\ Oh yeah we did not go there.
         \\
      
      
         \\ We did not go.
         \\ because when we were there the, the greenery and all was gone.
      
      
         Oh, oh yeah not the right time \\ summer should be the right time\\.
      
      
         \\ So we did not go to Lotus Park\\.
      
      
         That's a that's a--
      
      
         I've seen \\ several pictures of it \\ in summertime.
      
      
         \\ Well the lady's house we went\\ to the other night.
      
      
         Oh yeah Nancy and John took that picture and she, she published \\ that article\\.
      
      
         \\ Newspaper.
         \\
      
      
         \\In the newspaper \\ we saw that.
      
      
         Yeah in the newspaper January 1999 that is a park built in 600 and 72 or something like that it's even 1000 more year
         .
      
      
         ( )
      
      
         One more thousand
         but nobody tells a story about that it's just not the tradition anymore.
      
      
         Well I think part of that is when you had the Cultural Revolution.
      
      
         Yeah I , I think so because--
      
      
         So many people didn't want to \\ let their history be known.
         \\
      
      
         \\ So many is feudal \\ because a lot of things like the lions some people were saying is the symbol of feudalism because it protect the emperor, emperor or empress--
      
      
         ( )
      
      
         In some things so people just choose not to tell stories it seems that as soon as, uh, the new nation is was established, everything should take a new look and--
      
      
         ( )
      
      
         We just a cut off and say bye, bye to the history.
         
      
      
         Ooh I loved hearing the stories of the emperors though.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And all the concubines.
         
      
      
         Concubines?
      
      
         The mistresses.
      
      
         Wives.
      
      
         The wives.
      
      
         Oh.
      
   

   
   
      
         Good Afternoon.
         Uh, I understand that you are interested in some stories that I heard as a very young boy.
         Uh, thinking of some of them now uh, one of them was uh, "Three Bears".
         The Mama Bear, the Papa Bear, and uh, the Baby Bear, and of course they struggled a long competent from each other.
         I heard that story a long time ago, and it is, uh, it has stuck with me.
         Uh, also another one was uh, "The Raven," the poem "The Raven" uh, that we read in school and uh, we had to determine what it was about, and um, it wasn't easy at first for us to do that, and that, that story or poem went something like this, "Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary, over many a quaint and forgotten lore, while I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping, as if some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door, it is some visitor I said only this, and," uh, "nothing more."
         Of course the story went on for several pages.
         And we were to tell what it was about and uh, and uh, I don't think any of us in that class really came up with the answer.
         Teacher finally told us that it was, it was a bird.
         Uh, my family did not uh, all they
         told were some stories but, but they usually talk about past experiences uh, when they were growing up uh, when they were courting, and uh, during their early years of marriage, and uh, this kind of thing.
         I can remember uh, some of those stories now, uh, my mother would tell the story of a my uh, great grandmother, my grandmother sitting in the door of living room, when uh, my daddy would go to see her, before they got married and, and of course she would sit there until they leave, and sometimes she would act as though she was sleeping and got rather quiet, she would ( ).
         In other words, I went to the conclusion that there was strict supervision of, of teenagers uh, while they were under the influence of their parents.
         Uh,
         I would like to tell you about some traveling that I've done.
         I've been to uh, to counseling conferences at University of Michigan, no it was at Michigan State University, at East Lansing, MI.
         Uh, and the purpose of these three visits was a conference on counseling third world students.
         And, of course, the goal of this, uh, these sessions was to help individuals to become more familiar with uh, some of the uh, concerns and problems that uh, they may have due to language uh, new country and ability to uh, interpret what's happening around them.
         Um, we had a lot of good speakers and we had representation from uh, a large number of different ethnic groups, and uh, this proved to be very beneficial, and the most important thing to me was while I was there I read in the library a, a book that listed scholarships that have been listed and given out by the ( ) Foundation, and they listed uh, a couple of people who were on Michigan State's campus as uh, individuals who had served as readers for uh, the proposals that were sent.
         So, immediately, as soon as possible, rather, I got on the phone and I called over to Justine Morrow School and I got a chance to talk with the director who knew about the uh workings of ( ) Foundations and grants.
         I went in to conference with them, and I went over to uh, talk with them in person and explain to him what I wanted to do and showed me how I could incorporate the mandates of uh, scholarship that I was trying to get, the fellowship.
         Uh, and to a study uh, an experience related event.
         So it boiled down and I ended up working on uh the national design of uh, experiences that would help students from small areas make the transition from rural to uh, to larger cities, in eastern NC and of course I based that on the basis of high percentage of individuals who left the area after college and went to larger cities many of them succeeded more than we would like to.
         I guess basic problems in the transition from uh, small towns and rural areas to uh, the large cities.
         So, I wrote this proposal to do this and I got an interview from one of the readers who was from Kentucky and I met him in Greensboro, he interviewed me.
         In three or four weeks later, I was notified that I had received, which was for one year of study at uh, Temple University and it offered a stipend of $7,000.
         Uh, this was quite helpful uh, to me and also uh, while I was there I received a grant to uh, improve minority scholars on uh, predominately minority campuses which was known as AEP, Advancement of Education of Personnel, and of course this was given out on four different campuses, Bowie, Coppin, Livingstone, and Elizabeth City State uh, colleges and maybe one or two others and we would, they would send four people in the summer for study and two would return for the winter and two would stay and by doing this uh, each person in the group was able to get in their one year residency and continue studies.
         Uh, by uh, taking at least one semester off campus with continuous education and of course uh, returning in the summer, courses that were taken off campus when we return to our respective campuses had to be approved and they sent a professor to these campus to uh, interview us two or three times a year as to the progress that uh, we were making toward the uh, plan of study that we had made.
         OK uh, so guess you've decided by now that, that I did not have it easy growing up, in fact I did not expect to get the opportunities that I received but by making necessary contacts, good contacts, and uh, meeting people who were movers and shakers and could influence my career, I was able to build on that and uh, and to get a terminal degree at uh, Temple University in Urban Education, which helped me when I returned to my own campus to move from counseling to uh, Social Science Education, and uh, study in a society professor moving into the position of professorship uh, with tenure before I left.
         So uh, these are some good things that I think I uh, happen to good people.
         There is a book I've heard individuals lecture upon and I've read some of it myself, Why do Bad Things Happen to Good People?
         And this is true, everybody does not uh, deserve unfortunate things that happen to them.
         But it is my philosophy that a lot of good things happen to uh, good people and that more than likely they will happen to good people, because they will be on the right track.
         Now, um, uh,
         these, these ideas have stuck with me through the years and I guess there is a combination of stories that I've heard, speeches that I've heard, and uh, and of course books that I've read.
         But I remember when I was in college at A&T State University, W.O. Kerrington speaking uh, and he used for a subject that for every soul open its own way ( ).
         And he went on to say that high soul chooses the high way, the low soul chooses the low way.
         And in the midst, is the misty flats which most people choose, and then he went on to talk about the middle road being crowded uh, the low road meeting destruction, and disappointment, tragedy.
         But, the high road leading to success and opportunities and even then, though we were quite young, he challenged us it seemed to get through that if we selected the high road that benefits had the possibilities of being numerous and sometimes when I'm out alone, when test and trials come, those words come to me,
         a group of words were uttered by ( ) that we were expected to learn and we were expected and required in high school to learn poems, to read poems and try to interpret poems that we could think of, and one of them was by Kipling, which was "If" and I don't recall all of it now, but it went on to say that "if you can dream and not make your dreams your master, if you can think and not make your thoughts your aim, you can meet with triumph and disaster.
         Treat those two imposters just the same" and it goes on the say that if you can do all these things, yours is the world and all that is in it.
         And what is more that you will be a man or woman in life.
         ( ) That was meant to be nonexistent language at that time.
         Uh, so that has been a source of inspiration to me.
         Sometimes when I might have a, have exploded, used other approaches, I sought to keep my head when it seemed like everybody else was not thinking at the moment.
         What inspires one individual uh, may inspire another and may inspire something else.
         These, these are things that, that I would like to share with and I will tell you look at about my background.
         Let's see, my mother taught in the schools of North Carolina for 30 some years, over 35 years and my father uh, was a minister and uh, I have three brothers, no sisters and have always wished that I had sisters so that I can understand maybe girls a little bit better than I do.
         Ladies but, uh, that's the way it came out.
         We were a loving family.
         We did a lot of, most things together, worked together, we grew up in a rural area and we worked together, we ate together, we uh, went shopping together.
         We went to church together and uh, that bonded us to the extent that we have remained relatively close though gone our separate ways to different parts of country uh, because of that early loving and care, and concern.
         We were taught and soon acquired being concerned about each, each other.
         Played with animals, grew plants.
         This has helped me uh, as I've gone out on my own to be able to grow plants and find enjoyment and relaxation, working in that area when I can find time to do so.
         I would not want to get anyone to cut my grass and thought they would do it free because I enjoy doing it myself.
         I did go to the Philippines.
         When I graduated from uh, from Temple University as a present for my graduation.
         I spent 30 days there, I visited the embassy, I met some individuals.
         I got an opportunity to uh, school with them.
         Which they would go out into the bars, I think they called it in Manila, and on the weekend I spent one weekend there I had a chance to taste the foods, uh, to sleep under the uh, net, see little bit of a cock fight.
         To go to the swimming to pool and to make um, very beautiful pictures.
         And I found uh,
         I found everybody was very warm toward uh, me as an American.
         I don't know why I would do that by myself.
         I went by myself, basically without one, in a tour group and my visit after I got there.
         I didn't have any problems except uh, when I was getting ready to leave it was in the monsoon season.
         It was raining very hard.
         When the cab came to the hotel to take me to the airport I had my pull off my shoes and socks and wade halfway up my legs to get to the airport.
         Once I got to there, I dried them up and put them on.
         It wasn't very long before the plane was in and we headed back to the United States through the way of Guam and laid in Hawaii and California, Washington D.C. and uh, back to Norfolk, VA.
         So, that I shall always cherish and it helped me to understand other cultures and helped me to appreciate the uh, opportunities that I had in the United States.
         Uh, I hope to return to work uh, the in an embassy level position with some of those that would go on the international teams of teachers, doctors and so forth.
         But uh, the Iranian Crisis, hostage crisis, took place a few months after that and I was never able to get that, that off, but I had a vision, I had a desire to return again.
         Well, never done anything like this before but I hope that I said something like that uh, will help you to understand what it is like to grow up in uh, North Carolina and uh, the values that are perpetuated are taught, by good, well-thinking parents and the love and concern for each other that is expressed in many ways.
         Uh, nobody, nobody had lost to make us treat each other right.
         But at that time women were put on a pedestal and treated with the highest degree of respect and they were devout and loving to their husband and they didn't feel anybody was putting something on them and becoming unnecessarily agitated uh, because somebody didn't do something according to term.
         Uh, we had ( ) School was a happy place, place for play, we had limited supervision at a small high school and students basically uh, loved the teachers.
         The teachers lived in the community, primarily; they visited the churches.
         And sometimes members of the churches that students went to.
         So, they saw the students in non-academic settings as well as in academic settings.
         They knew the parents and of course they had the confidence of the parents and um, students tried to do the right things because they did not want their teachers to tell um, their mother on them.
         Because if they did, the mother wouldn't curse the teacher out, she, she would penalize the student in some way and um, most students didn't even have to go through that because they did the right thing because it was the right thing to do.
         And never heard of fights, well we had some little fist fights but not with guns and that kind of thing uh until very recently in the area I grew up and I still haven't heard of it happening there, but I've heard of it happening in other parts of NC and the United States.
         But uh, parents spent a lot of time at that time with um, their children.
         I think this is, this is the key and missing ingredient, many of them are busy working everyday.
         They have other problems, they have children while they are young.
         They want to socialize and many times the children left to fend for themselves and to make choices and of course they fail to make the proper choices.
         Role models, certainly are needed in our communities and uh, in our schools also uh, because students mirror what they hear and what they see.
         Uh, and if they see adults doing some other things they we, accuse them for, uh, they figure that this is cool.
         These individuals become their heroes, and uh, they try to emulate them.
         Uh, one final thing that I must mention is religion was more of an important factor in the lives of young people when I was a teenager.
         Growing up, almost everybody went to church and students went with them and it sure didn't make them perfect, but it seem to uh, place some fear in their minds, some people today I think have no fear, even fear of death.
         They think they're going to come back, it's some temporary vacation and they don't realize when they use violence or they when they overdose how permanent it is.
         So if we don't, people have different tendency of churches and religions, Judaism, Hinduism, ( ), Christianity and then you have Atheist.
         But if we don't use any of those, uh, we need something that can cause us to think and let us know that we are not really masters of our own fate, captains of our own souls, but uh, that we are dispensable, that we are passing through here for a short period of time.
         It's important to make our mark in the sand and one way to do it certainly is to live a decent life and uh, if we can do that and add education competencies and skills that we can help lift someone else then uh, we would come to the end of the road with joy and happiness I think uh, saying that we have helped to make the world better.
         Thank you.
      
   

   
   
      
         OK, this is my second interview with Larry Wentz, my father.
         He is also living in Lincolnton, WV, but he's originally from, but, um, I mean
         , he's living in Lincolnton, NC, sorry but he's originally from Buckhannon, WV.
         OK.
         Dad, um, what was it like growing up in Buckhannon for you?
      
      
         Buckhannon was uh, uh, a very small and close-knit town.
         Uh, what I enjoyed the most growing up was, uh, was the college campus.
         It's the home of West Virginia Wesleyan College and that was my playground, that was my own, the place where I spent so much of my childhood playtime and, uh, running through the different buildings and structures of the campus.
         Uh, having a free reign, going and coming as I pleased almost, because my grandfather was the Dean of the College.
         And, and everybody knew me so nobody really tried uh, to uh corral me, so I was sort of free to go and do what I wanted, you know when the buildings were open.
         And uh, just uh, using that campus as a playground to, um, have war games and, and do all kinds of adventurous, uh, you know, hide and seek times and things like that with my friends; a lot of roller skating, a lot of raking leaves in the fall and to making leaf houses and all kinds of things like that is uh, very memorable.
      
      
         OK
         Um, Dad, what was it, the, what were some, what are some of the main things that you remember about your grandfather who was Dean of Wesleyan?
         I think his name was Grandfather Schoolcrafts
         Grandfather Schoolcraft.
         Sorry.
      
      
         Um, some of the things that I remember is a small office that, uh, we would go into a lot.
         He had one of those old-fashioned, uh, recorder machines that, uh, had a cone on it where the needle would imprint your voice onto a cylinder cone.
         I don't know the technical name for the machine now.
         But, uh, I would always hide is his closet a lot in his office, you know, or maybe he put me in there for disciplinary reasons.
         I don't know, I just remember being in there a lot.
         Um, he had about two or three secretaries, and um, they were always nice, and, um, it was just a fun thing to see his name on the door and to know that he was an important man, but he was also my grandfather.
      
      
         OK, Thank you.
         Um, do you feel that Buckhannon is a place that you will ever want to return to live in the future?
         And, why or why not, or why did you like living in Lincolnton, NC so much?
      
      
         As far as Buckhannon being a place I would want to retire in or retire back to, uh, I don't see that in the future to me.
         Uh, not that it's not a nice town, there are a lot of good memories and so forth there.
         It's more of a place in my life now that I like to visit, um, I don't see the change in it that I do in NC.
         As far as WV compared to NC, I don't see the change, um, and maybe the change is something that I enjoy and, uh, that's why I sort of tend to think that if current change, intend to think I'll be retiring, um, in, um, NC or TN.
         Someplace like that, that is more south.
         But, I enjoy WV and I enjoy going back and meeting friends and uh,
         stirring up memories.
      
      
         OK, um we're certainly not doing anything for promoting tourism for WV today.
         But uh, with my last two interviews, but I digress, anyway.
         
         ( ) Dad, Dad, um, do you remember going to Audra State Park a lot when you were a younger teenager, and if so, what kinds of things would you do there, including snake hunting, drinking of alcohol, etc?
      
      
         Jess, I never hunted snakes because I don't like snakes.
         Uh, we did see them in the water occasionally and screamed and yelled and ran, you know.
         There was the occasional bottle of alcohol consumed, in the water, on the water, around the water, um.
         I'm glad those days are gone, way gone.
         But, uh, Audra State Park was a fun place, we would get on our bicycles and in our teenage years before we could drive and that was a good 10-11 miles over hill and dale to get there and we would definitely ride our bikes there and spend the day, even walk, uh hitch hike, and walk the railroad tracks which cut the distance down considerably, just to, uh, spend a day in the water and, uh, hunting, uh, you know, exploring, and uh, just enjoying seeing new people and different people you never saw before.
      
      
         OK, um,
         , do you remember any ghost stories or scary stories, from uh,
         around the area of Buckhannon?
         Or Audra?
         Or Sago?
      
      
         Or come up with a different question.
         No I don't remember any scary stories, because I don't believe in scary stories.
         And there weren't any really, except headless farmers that would come out at midnight on certain days of the year and throw potatoes at you!
         
         If you were walking the road at night.
      
      
         Yes, I think that's a favorite for lots of folks around the country.
         Um, oh, I, um asked Linda the same question because we are getting ready to move into the year 2000, a new century.
         Dad, what is your fav,
         what is your favorite movie of the century and why?
         Linda's was The Sound of Music.
      
      
         Put that on pause.
      
      
         My favorite movie of the century-- \\
      
      
         \\ Well, a few of them, two or three.
         \\
      
      
         Would be, From Here to Eternity.
         Uh, I did like Creature from the Black Lagoon when I was a child.
         That was one of the scariest movies I ever saw.
         And The Mummy, because that was a good one too.
         I liked Frankenstein.
         I liked the Werewolf.
         My mother made me see all these scary things that's why I'm warped and hairy today.
      
      
         What is a favorite movie since the age of 30 or above?
      
      
         Um, my favorite movie uh, since the age of 30, I sure do like The Wizard of Oz, before I was ten.
         Since the age of 30 I guess it would have to be Fiddler on the Roof, I love that movie.
         I also enjoy um, Scarlet Pimpernel and Hook.
         And Black Beauty.
      
      
         
         OK.
         We all understand why you like um, Scarlet Pimpernel because
         it was such an intriguing story of
         revolutionary proportions, but why do you identify so much with the Jewish plight portrayed in Fiddler on the Roof?
      
      
         Um, well my favorite part was the two staircases, one going up and one coming down, or there were three actually, one going nowhere, in between.
         
      
      
         
         Dad, come on, you're making no sense at all.
      
      
         I know I'm at the no sense time of this interview.
         I don't make any sense now.
         What do you want me to say?
      
      
         ( )
      
      
         Fiddler on the Roof, I like the story, I like the fact that-- \\
      
      
         ( )
      
      
         Oh yeah, I like old what's his face's voice, I like to sing like he does.
         I like the song, I like his beard, I like his prayer shawl.
         And um, I like the fact that, um, it's a wonderful story about the some of the traditions, some of the type of holocausts that some of the Jewish people had to go through living in that country and at that period of time and, um, just, uh, just, uh something in my heart, that, uh, maybe Jewish roots from centuries back or something that, uh, tends to make me feel the way I do about the movie.
         Um, being um, Jewish born again myself, I have that tendency to uh, know about the plight of the Jews and sympathize with them.
      
      
         OK, thank you.
         Um Dad, we're getting close to Christmas and the media has had such a fun time the last few weeks talking about shopping on the Internet.
         In this new age of technology with e-mails, websites, um, downloading this and that, do you feel overwhelmed with those kinds of terms?
         Um do you feel like you are able to get on a computer and understand it?
         Or does it sort of scare you?
      
      
         It sort of scares me, I am so confused.
         That's all I can say, that was a horrible question.
      
      
         Linda, did you think that was a horrible question?
      
      
         No.
      
      
         I thought it was.
         I mean-- \\
      
      
         \\ Do you like computers?
         I mean you're going to, you are opening a new business-- \\
      
      
         \\ I am computer illiterate, so I don't have a like or dislike for them because I don't know what they can do for me.
         \\
      
      
         \\ You're getting a new retail business started and-- \\
      
      
         And someday I'll like computers.
      
      
         Some people sell a lot more on the Internet.
         Do you think that with this business, um, you're going to have to learn how to do it-- \\
      
      
         \\ Sure.
         \\
      
      
         \\ And become acquainted with the-- \\
      
      
         \\ Sure.
         \\
      
      
         Internet, where you can sell your tree water.
         That is water from the made from the maple.
      
      
         \\ Squeezed from the might maple.
         Squeezed we are talking hand squeezed.
         Milked from the tree.
         \\
      
      
         \\ It's a one of a kind folks.
         Anyway-- \\
      
      
         \\ My hands hurt.
         \\
      
      
         \\ Straight from WV.
         So there's one good thing about WV we can talk about-- \\
      
      
         We got strong hands.
         Milking them trees.
      
      
         Okey-dokey.
         \\ Um, we-- \\
      
      
         \\ How much did you say you were going to pay me for this?
         \\
      
      
         You're not getting paid, Dad.
         OK, um, what, uh, what is your favorite show of the century and why?
      
      
         My favorite show of the century-- \\
      
      
         \\ A lot of people say Seinfeld, what do you think about that?
         \\
      
      
         No, I like Archie Bunker All in the Family, with Edith.
         That's my favorite time of growing up.
         I can remember it very well.
         In fact I was humming the tune today.
         ( )
      
      
         I'm not a bigot.
         But I enjoyed the TV series.
      
      
         OK.
      
      
         ( )
      
      
         I'm sitting looking at my kitten Cordelia, who I've named after a popular character in a TV show, Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
         Um what do you think about the rise of occult, occultic matters or TV shows, movies about the occult.
         Why do you think they're becoming so trendy in recent years?
      
      
         Uh, I feel that man basically is a spiritual being first and he is always trying to get to the root problems of his personality and his surroundings.
         God creates in the spirit, creates in the natural and, uh, man does the same, and man's trying to find his creativity of the spiritual realm and I feel he's just, um, the day and age is getting closer and closer to end times, as far as I believe, the word of God says, and so the days are drawing closer to where man will be harboring more and more blackness in his heart, it will prevail.
         And, uh, man will be trying to find, uh, you know, the cause of life, so I don't know.
         It's just, um, it's a deep subject to talk about, a very broad subject to talk about, but being spiritual beings, I guess the shortest way of saying it.
         Man's fantasy and tendency is to go into the occult, into black magic and the dark side because that's where he dwells and that's where his heart is, uh, settled in right now and until you know the Lord and know the true meaning of life and your purpose you're always searching in the dark side for the, the meaning of reality and the meaning of life, always trying to find out about the future.
         I remember when I was kid, I was always trying to, uh, find out about the future because of the fear that it brings.
         But, uh, by knowing the Lord those fears are all removed.
      
      
         OK, and also we think goodness for Buffy that we have her to fight back against these evil people.
         Especially the vampires and demons.
         Now--
      
      
         ( )
      
      
         Um one last question Dad, um
         , what is your favorite time of year and why?
         Do you like spring or summer or winter or fall and why?
      
      
         What's my fifth choice?
         Hum, my favorite time of year is summer.
         I enjoy spring and I enjoy fall, but summer is the best.
         I'm a summer person.
         I love warm weather, I love the colors that summer brings.
         And uh, life, I just enjoy everything is alive and at its peak in the summertime.
         And, um, my favorite time of the year because, uh, as a kid I really enjoyed myself more during the summer I wasn't a, uh, person that got into sports so it wasn't like a fall thing or a spring type mentality but, uh, or winter sports, so um, I just enjoy summer.
      
      
         OK, I lied and said that was my last question.
         I have a few more actually.
         \\ Um.
         -- \\
      
      
         \\ Repent!
         \\
      
      
         I asked Linda what she, if she could remember meeting you in junior high and why she fell in love with you.
         
         Can you give me some feedback on your first encounter with Linda Stonicker in junior high or high school?
      
      
         My first encounter with her was by phone, when I called her up to ask her out for my friend Tom, because Tom was a chicken.
         He was a dweeb.
         And so I call her up knowing that she probably wouldn't go out with him, hoping she wouldn't.
         But, and she didn't hallelujah!
         And so I asked her out and she said, "Yes!"
         And that was my first encounter.
         My second encounter was kissing her rosy lips.
      
      
         Larry!
         
      
      
         Oh forget it, I got overwhelmed by my first encounter.
      
      
         OK, and also one last question and Dad I promise this is the last one.
         What do you think about my husband Bob?
         
         Since he's not here to defend himself.
      
      
         What do I think about Bob?
         Well, for the last year, year and half, everybody I've ever met that we've talked to about Jessica and Bob, I've right from the start said that Bob was the one I would have picked out for my daughter for a husband.
         Of all the jerks that she ever paraded through my living room, or some of them wouldn't even parade through my living room, they just would stay in the car because they knew better.
         Um, he had to be the, um, best looking, the most appealing for her.
         Um, his character he's blooming, but, uh, I always say that to my friends that he would have been the one I'd pick and I'm happy and very glad that I have him for a son- in-law.
      
      
         OK, and we're sure that he appreciates that.
         Um, once again that was an interview with my father, Larry Wentz who is originally from Buckhannon, WV and now resides in Lincolnton, NC.
      
   

   
   
      
         OK.
         This is the first interview for 4260 with my step mom Linda Wentz.
      
      
         Hello.
         
      
      
         
         Sorry, um, Linda grew up in a small town in WV called Buckhannon.
         Linda, what did you like
         think about living there?
         What did you think about living there?
         Sorry.
      
      
         Well, I, when I was a little kid I didn't really think a whole lot about it, except that was my home.
         I loved the house that I lived in when I was a little girl, and it was very small, and I lived on a street called Fayette St., and it had a wonderful maple tree in the front and I liked to climb it, I was a tomboy.
         So one of my favorite things do to was, you know, roller-skate and climb trees.
         I had a little, I have three brothers, at the time when I was smaller I only had two because my youngest brother Jimmy hadn't been born yet.
         So my younger brother Jimmy and I, and the next door neighbors would play, and I guess, really Buckhannon was like a very wonderful town to grow up in because there wasn't a lot of crime it was just very safe, a very safe place.
      
      
         How long have you lived in Lincolnton, NC?
      
      
         Nine years.
      
      
         
         OK,
         Um, you're now married to the man that you dated in high school.
         How did you meet him in high school?
      
      
         Well, actually I met him in junior high.
         And I was in the seventh grade and he was in the ninth grade.
         And, um, at lunchtime what we did was we would go to the gym and everybody would eat their lunch in the gym on the bleachers and they would have, they would play records and then the kids would dance.
         Of course, you know, I was very skinny, I was cute but not the kind of girl that guys were looking at, and, I but I used to watch your dad dance with all the other girls and he was a wonderful dancer and I really liked him.
         Used to sit and look at the kids dance and I'd listen to Beetles songs.
         I would look at Larry and I had picked him as the one I'd always wanted to dance with and it wasn't until we got into high school that he noticed me.
         And I was in a
         a talent show with my girlfriend and we did a modern dance to "Pink Panther," and after that my phone didn't stop ringing for awhile.
         And your dad called me and asked me if I wanted to go out with is best friend Tom Rigger, and I said, "Never."
         This guy was not my type and so he said, "Would you like to go out with me?"
         and I said, "Yes, I would," and so that's when we started dating.
      
      
         Why did you like him?
         Besides the fact that he could dance?
      
      
         Well, he was very handsome and I, um, loved his smile, had a beautiful smile.
         And he was, you know, just tall and thin and there was just something about him that I found very, very attractive.
         And he was funny and I liked to laugh.
         Well we just, I really fell kind of madly in love with him,
         at 15.
      
      
         What do you miss most about not living in Buckhannon, WV?
      
      
         Nothing.
         
         As a child I loved it, but as I grew up there just really wasn't a whole lot that Buckhannon had to offer other than the fact that, you know, was where my memories of childhood are and my parents.
         And I like going home to visit my parents and seeing my friends but as far as wanting to live there, I wouldn't.
      
      
         OK, I think y'all have a phone call.
         Let's pause for a moment.RECORDING PAUSED THEN RESUMED
      
      
         OK, we're back.
         What are some funny words that you first heard in NC that you'd never heard before that made you laugh?
      
      
         Well, I guess the first funny world I heard was "Hey!"
         And I couldn't figure out what everyone was talking about.
         You know, they'd say "Hey, how you doing?"
         \\ And you know, we always say-- \\
      
      
         \\ Hay is for horses.
         \\
      
      
         Or "hi" or "hello," and so that, that, this was kind of funny to me.
         Another one of the things that everyone says here, you'll say something to them and they'll say, "Well."
         They say, "well" a lot, it's just a, I don't know what, something that they use to say when they don't know what else to say--
      
      
         It's a hesitation.
      
      
         A hesitation.
         Yeah, well, and, uh, another interesting word was "picking".
         I went right into the school system and I was teaching and, um, it was a little awkward at times and the kids were, they would tease, and instead of saying, you know, I'm teasing, they would say-- \\
      
      
         \\ Hello baby!
         \\
      
      
         They would say, "Mrs. Wentz," and a, you know, another thing they'd make syllables where there isn't even any syllables at all.
         They would, they would make syllables, for instance, my name is Wentz.
         It was, "Mrs. We-ntz, just picking Mrs. We-ntz."
         And "ill" to me that is when you're sick, but people here say, "Well, I was just really ill," which means they were upset or angry or something like that.
      
      
         OK, what about Sundrop?
         Do you like it?
         Does--?
         Is it a drink of your choice?
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Lots of people around here seem to think it is
         it's a, what's it called,
         drink of the gods.
      
      
         Um, well, I, you know, I think it's OK, but it's nothing that I was, that I would want everyday.
         That or Cheery, Cheerwine.
         Those, those are two drinks that I don't crave.
      
      
         OK, Oh, what do you think is, uh,
         best, movie of the century?
         Since it's almost the year 2000.
         
      
      
         
            Oh, um, The Sound of Music.
      
      
         Why?
      
      
         Why?
         Well, I guess I, well I love Julie Andrews, and I like, I really love the music that's in The Sound of Music.
         I like the whole background, the plot.
         And everything.
         And, um, it just makes me feel good.
         In fact, I watched it three times th, this past Christmas, because, I hadn't seen it in awhile, and I loved it so much, that I had to watch it over and over again.
      
      
         OK, um, since we are talking about a movie based in Europe.
         Where are your ancestral roots, Linda?
      
      
         
         Well, my father's family came from Germany.
         My last name is Stonicker.
         And, um,
         one of my grandparents was also from France.
         So there's, there's sort of a mixture there.
         And my mother's family, her last name was Corley.
         And she was, I think.
         -- \\
      
      
         \\ Irish?
         \\
      
      
         Irish, yeah, so I guess it would be kind of a German-Irish mix.
      
      
         Do you miss your dad who lived in Buckhannon, WV?
         And what are some special qualities about him that you can talk about?
      
      
         
         Yeah, I miss my dad.
         I miss my mom.
         But my mom is in heaven.
         My dad is a very, very special man.
         He, um, he grew up in WV and he, um, played football when he was in high school and he went right into the service and he was in WWII, he was a medic in the army.
         And he was over in Europe.
         In fact, I was just talking to him this last Thanksgiving about some of the things that he went through when he was in the service and, and traveling across the sea on these boats that had flat bottoms and they would go way up in the, in the water and then smack down, you know, it was very rough.
         They left out of NY and went to Scotland.
         And, um, he said you would look out if you were up on deck and the waves, the swells were way up higher than, than the boat itself and looked like you were going to drown.
         But the Queen Mary was right beside to them.
         They were in a fleet.
         And the WACs were on the Queen Mary, and, you know, they just had a smooth sailing trip when these poor guys in the army, you know, they were just so sick almost every day because of the, the boats and everything.
         But I, my dad is, um, he's just a very sweet man.
         You know my mother's been gone for four years.
         And he has, he's 81 years old.
         And he takes care of the house wonderfully.
         When we came home for Thanksgiving dinner he had everything prepared, had the turkey in the oven and everything ready.
         He's just a really fine guy.
      
      
         81?
      
      
         He's 81 years old.
         
         He's a retired driller.
         He drilled wells all of his life all over WV, VA, and KY.
      
      
         
         OK.
         That's nice.
         
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Um, did
         um where, where did you go to college at?
         And why did you want to be an artist?
      
      
         Well, ( ) I wanted to be an artist when I was little girl.
         The first painting that I did that I really remember was a finger painting that I did of one of my dolls.
         And it was just so exciting to me and I was probably only about five years old.
         But I propped my doll up and I had my finger paints and I looked at her and I did this portrait of her and it was just really good to me, I'm sure to anyone else it was like, "Yeah right."
         But I wanted, that was just something that I really enjoyed doing.
         That and dancing.
         I wanted to be a ballerina.
         The ballerina part never came about, but I, I did go on to college and I, um, transferred a lot and ended up going to a lot of different colleges which was kind of fun.
         I went to Marshall University, and I went to University of Pittsburgh, and I ended up graduating from West Virginia University with a major in printmaking and a minor in art history and English literature.
      
      
         Did you ever visit the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh?
         Because that is where he was, he grew up.
         And do, do you enjoy Andy Warhol?
      
      
         Well, you know, that's really funny, but I don't remember visiting the Andy Warhol Museum.
      
      
         Did you know that was where he was from?
      
      
         No.
         But I didn't, I studied Andy Warhol briefly.
         I mean I didn't go an in-depth study of him or that type of art.
      
      
         I think he took his first art lessons at Carnegie Museum-- \\
      
      
         \\ Carnegie Mellon.
         \\
      
      
         \\ Yeah, whatever, Carnegie.
         \\
      
      
         \\ Carnegie Mellon.
         \\
      
      
         When he was a kid and that's how he got interested in art.
      
      
         Um-hmm.
      
      
         But he, I think that his
         parents were Eastern European--
      
      
         Um-hmm.
      
      
         And they were like, lived in the nasty little section where all the mills were and stuff.
         But anyway.
         Um, who's your favorite artist?
      
      
         Well I really liked the Impressionists, I liked Monet and Renoir, Mary Cassatt, I, um, loved studying all of the artists.
         I loved art history.
         I loved Michelangelo's sculptures and his paintings and the Renaissance era.
         
         Rembrandt did the etchings and, you know, that was interesting to me because, you know, that's what I ended up doing, was printmaking.
         But I, I like the light and the pastels, colors that are in the Impressionists.
         
      
      
         What do you think about the current trends in art, modern art?
         Which some conservative people might consider offensive and disturbing?
         Especially the anti-religious art.
      
      
         Um-hmm, well art has always been controversial and has always reflected what is going on in the world.
         You know, and, um, so, you know, having studied art history, that doesn't, it doesn't shock me or surprise me that much.
         And I, you know, I don't like it, personally, because,
         you know, it does offend me, what, what I have seen, and I don't like the idea that we are giving the money to create extremely offensive art, but, um, again, that, that's, you know, is, art reflects what's going on and art is, is very spiritual regardless of whether its content says, you know, something about God or not, there, there has a very spiritual quality about it.
         It's very powerful
      
      
         Um, OK.
         I watched a special on Norman Rockwell the other night on PBS, and some consider him not an artist but just an illustrator.
         What are your comments on that?
      
      
         
         Well, that is a, a statement that I've heard used in art a lot.
         I, personally, I was accused of being an illustrator, which it's interesting that I would even use the word "accuse" because it seems like there is a lot of prejudice in art and of what people say is art with quotation marks around it.
         And, uh, Norman Rockwell was a tremendous artist.
         He was a, he was a, you know, he was a realist.
         And regardless of whether someone calls it illustrative or not.
         It, it is art and it is wonderful art and he has captured a whole era, you know, he captured people and, and people that, who you could look into their faces and you could tell everything about them.
         You know so, people in my field, in my experience, when I was in college, one of the things that I exp, you know, had to deal with, was other people's opinion of what art is, and especially my instructors saying, "You need to be more cryptic," or "You need to be more esoteric, your art is too transparent or too happy."
         You know, well that's me.
      
      
         ( ) All writers have to be suicidal in order to be considered brilliant, I'm so sick of that.
         Why does everyone have kill their selves or be moody, just to be considered a good writer or artist?
      
      
         Well one of the things the art world is looking for is, you know, um, emotion.
         They want an emotion to be evoked, you know, when you look at something.
         Art, art whether it's writing or, or, um, drama or visual or music, you know, there's a term that Shakespeare used.
         It was catharsis, you know, and people want to exper, they want to experience something.
         And I guess even in writing, um,
         , there's so many unhappy people in the world and it seems like, you know, when they read something and can relate to it then they get some kind of release or relief in their emotions by identifying with it and that could be why there seems to be such a demand for that sort of thing.
         And, uh, but, on the other hand, there's the happy people, you know, and I am one of them.
         I'm just a happy person, and my art reflects that, and I think that I, you know, love to read stories that are written and everything that also, you know, have a good moral background to them, and something where you can learn something of value and virtue in it, like Louisa May Alcott, you know, her work, I love her work.
         So, you know, there's two sides to that coin.
         We just have to find the right audience.
      
      
         OK, thank you for your comments, Linda.
         Again, her name's Linda Wentz and she's my step mom who lives a quick 45 minutes away from Charlotte in Lincolnton, NC.
      
   

   
   
      
         Female Voice TAPE 1, SIDE A
      
      
         This interview is Darlene Maurer interviewing Christopher Werth.
         Chris, can you tell us what stories or book you remember reading as a child?
      
      
         Probably the most, uh, well-known books would be the, uh, uh, a series of books called, uh, Meet, and then it would give a name.
         For example, Meet Andrew Jackson or Meet Daniel Boone or George Washington, uh, things like that.
      
      
         Why were they special?
      
      
         Well I was always interested in biography as a kid, um, so I guess because they told me about things, people, personalities.
         I've always had, had an interest in history, so it was a chance to learn more about people.
      
      
         So it's, uh, it's the history, historical part and learning about the historical people that interested you the most?
      
      
         Probably the biography, you know, the people and the times they lived in.
      
      
         And what age of child, what age of child were you?
      
      
         Umm, I don't know.
         I would probably say sometime between, maybe, uh, five and eight.
      
      
         Wow that young of an age you were interested in other people, huh?
      
      
         Oh yeah.
         I've always been interested.
         It's a, it was a good way to find out what was going on outside the world that I was living in.
      
      
         So do you remember any particular ones that you really liked, or anyone?
      
      
         No.
         I think they were just all interesting books, uh, you know, I had a whole collection them and I only got rid of them when I was in high school.
         Now I hear they're pretty valuable books.
         
         As usually the case.
      
      
         Yeah.
         That happens, yes.
      
      
         But, um, you know, they were interesting and they talked about the, not just the famous persons, but they also talked about, um, you know, the times they lived in and things like that.
         Pretty nicely illustrated,-
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         OK.
         \\ Did you have-\\
      
      
         \\ -easy to read.
         \\.
      
      
         -special feelings when you read them, or-?
      
      
         Just tried to imagine what life was like in those times.
      
      
         Oh I see, so you would like-
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         -go into the imagination, go into the imagination of-
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         -this is what it must have been like being this person or living at that time or-
      
      
         Yeah, or knowing some things.
      
      
         -something like that?
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         So, OK.
         Um, anything else you can remember about that?
      
      
         No.
         Just, just generally.
      
      
         OK.
         So where, uh, was this?
         Was this-?
      
      
         Um, between, well home was NJ and Raleigh.
         New Jersey and Raleigh, NC.
      
      
         OK.
         
         So, um
         , anything else you can think of for us?
      
      
         No.
         I just think they were just fairly well-illustrated, you know.
         Simple to read compared to some of the other stuff I was reading.
         But they were pretty simple to read.
      
      
         Oh, OK.
         Can you remember some, uh, any other stories that you might have read or stories your family, someone maybe in your family, told you?
      
      
         Um-
         
            
         
      
      
         Hi.
      
      
         Hi
         .
         Do you need the room?
      
      
         Yeah.BREAK
      
      
         Can you think of any stories that, um, that you remember from growing up or anyone in the family telling you?
         Anyone in your family telling stories?
      
      
         The only story I might remember would be, um, as I got older, um, you know, asking folks what it was like, uh, living in France during the Nazi occupation, what it was like growing up before that, and that type of thing.
      
      
         So your parents came over here?
      
      
         My father did in `16.
      
      
         OK.
      
      
         After the Second World War.
      
      
         Your mom was born here then?
      
      
         My mom was born here.
         So maybe asking her what it was like growing up in New York City before WW II or during the War, or that type of thing.
      
      
         Oh, I see.
      
      
         But as rule, storytelling was not something that I grew up with like some traditions and some cultures and some places there were-
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         -you tell stories about things, you have to ask for those, that information.
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         Maybe because the memories were so pitifully painful.
      
      
         Right.
         Was it difficult?
         Do they, do they, uh, share about what their homeland was like?
         What France was like?
      
      
         Dad doesn't talk too much about what life was like, other than talking about how good times were before the War.
         But during the War he doesn't, he's got, a lot of stuff has been blocked out.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         Because I imagine that life was pretty tough.
         Mom remembers a lot of stuff, but, uh, you know, details of everyday life, but, uh, she also remembers a lot about the Great Depression and then the rationing during the Second World War and things like that, but she doesn't go into much detail either.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         It must of have been pretty hard.
         That's all I can think-
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         -since it wasn't talked about.
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         Or still isn't talked about unless you pry it out of them.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And even then you don't get a full story.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         Do they ever talk about good memories they had back then?
      
      
         Uh, they have some good memories but it's just not talked about, period.
      
      
         Um.
      
      
         Just, I, I didn't not grow up in a tradition where storytelling about life, you know, or heroics, uh, were talked about, or it just, you have to pry people's information, I guess, pull from their information.
      
      
         Um, just don't go there, huh?
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         Yeah, yeah, I understand.
      
      
         I know some people freely talked about their, about exploits, you know.
         That's just, that's just not part of the family tradition, I guess.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
         OK.
         Um, OK, all right.
         Is there anything else you'd like to say?
      
      
         No.
         Um, just that, um, you know, that as far as, you know, stories, you know, most of the stories I, you know, if I remember anything it's about the books I read and stuff.
         But oral storytelling is not part of, you know, as I say, the family tradition.
      
      
         Your family didn't talk much around the dinner table about stories?
      
      
         Well we talked about what happened during your day and, you know, what happened at school, what happened at work, but as a rule, um, and maybe that's because, for, you know, from the time I was 10, um, you know, I didn't have any cousins living nearby, and aunts and uncles, and grandparents.
      
      
         Oh, OK.
      
      
         So-
      
      
         So that really made a difference?
      
      
         Yeah.
         My mother's parents were both dead by that time, well before I was born, and so I never knew my mother's parents and there would have been stories, maybe, there.
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         Uh, when I was 10, I moved away from my grandfather, who already, uh, I think he was already dead by that time, and my grandmother was definitely, you know, way away and we didn't talk to her.
         Un, o, my father may have talked to her once a week on the phone.
      
      
         Where did she live?
      
      
         In NY, but we were in NC by this time so-
      
      
         OK, OK.
      
      
         So maybe, you know, it was just, you know, you know, when I would physically see her for a while, it was like once a year.
         But there was never any storytelling going on.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Until she got maybe much older, and then I started prying into the family history.
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         But that was only because I was doing a research project in which you talk about things.
      
      
         OK.
         So do you have brothers and sisters?
      
      
         I have one brother, younger.
      
      
         Uh-huh OK.
      
      
         No sisters.
      
      
         OK, good.
         Well, thank you for sharing your story with us.
      
      
         All right, thank you.
         Good luck on your project.
      
      
         Thanks.
      
   

   
   
      
         This is an interview with Tammy White.
         Where were you born?
      
      
         I was born in Charlotte.
      
      
         How long ago?
      
      
         Hmph, 38 years, 39 years ago.
         
         I was there for 30 years.
      
      
         So, you are a native Charlottean?
      
      
         Until I moved to Gaston County, which was seven or eight years ago.
      
      
         I guess you pretty well seen that town grow up.
      
      
         I still work in Charlotte.
         
         I still feel like I live there since Gaston County is only five minutes next door to Charlotte.
      
      
         What's changed the most about the city since you've been a child?
      
      
         ( )
      And add more.
         
         Didn't used to be so dangerous to drive and now it is very dangerous to drive.
         I don't think they should let kids drive anymore.
         Not until they're about 18, 19 years old.
         I think they should have a learners permit for a long time.
         
         We've had so many people move in from everywhere.
      
      
         I guess you don't even recognize Charlotte anymore it's changed so much.
      
      
         I recognize it because it changes with me each and everyday.
         Don't look like it used to.
         
      
      
         What where were you born in Charlotte?
      
      
         Presbyterian Hospital.
      
      
         That was in December, '60.
      
      
         
         Yeah.
         I was the first granddaughter born.
         There were a bunch of grandsons on both sides of the family.
         So I was named after each grandmother and Mama liked "Tammy" and stuck it in the middle.
         So I had a real long name when I went to school.
         I was in the first grade before I found out what my whole name was.
      
      
         What was your whole name?
      
      
         Christine Tammy Marie Watkins.
         I lay my head down on the desk and cried because I had to learn how to write a long name and everyone else's was short.
         I'd been writing "Tammy Watkins."
         
         I could read and write before I went to school, because Mama had a lot of time to spend with me.
         My next sister wasn't born until I was like five years old.
         [Long pause] The teachers were upset because I was way ahead of everybody else.
         
         They didn't know what to do with me.
      
      
         Like a misfit.
      
      
         And I got in trouble all the time.
         
         They still liked me though; they still helped me.
      
      
         What do you remember as a child?
         Tell me the story about the coat.
      
      
         Which one?
         The big furry blue coat?
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         That was like in the fifth grade, fourth grade.
         Blue was my favorite color.
         Everything I had was blue.
         So Mama and Daddy bought me a big blue furry coat for my birthday or Christmas.
         I don't know.
         Birthday and Christmas run together.
         Usually what I got for birthday was for Christmas and Christmas for birthday.
         Because my birthday was so close to Christmas I only got one present.
         It was a big old ugly blue fur coat.
         I felt like a big blue polar bear.
         So I hid it under the bushes on the way to the bus and pick it up on the way home.
         Same things kids do now, except they pick out their own coats.
         They just change their mind after a week.
         [Long pause] I was a tomboy.
         I only had boys to play with.
         
         When I was little I used to want to be a boy.
         
         When I grew up I wondered why?
         Why you want to be something that was so inhuman?
         
      
      
         Why do you say that?
      
      
         
         
         Well guy's are all right, as long as they're your friends.
         
         
         I still have more guy friends than girlfriends.
         Even after all these years.
         
      
      
         Remember anything else as a little child?
         
      
      
         
         Jumping off high buildings.
         Swinging a swing as far as it would go and jump out of it and see who could jump the farthest.
         Or, we'd take the swing and pull the swing out all the way around until it, until it dunked and we'd swing all the way around the top of it.
         We'd build playhouses out in the woods, tree houses out in the woods.
         We dig a, we dug an underground cavern out of the mud one time and stole a bunch of stuff from all the houses around.
         We had carpet in there, and rugs, and furniture and everything.
         We played in it a couple of years until the parents found out and then they had a fit, they said we could have smothered to death if it fell in or rained or anything.
         That was neat.
         You had to climb down in it.
         It looked real neat too it looked better than some of our houses.
         Dug it out little by little, made it bigger.
         Of course it probably wasn't as big as I remember it to be.
         
         I used to love to go up to my Aunt Sandra's house because she had three boys and she'd let us run wild through the neighborhood.
         When I was at home with, Mama and Daddy wouldn't even let me out of the yard.
         They watched me like a hawk.
         Sandra was scared to death when it was time for Mama to come pick me up because I'd be muddy and dirty from head to toe.
         
         Mama hated it that I was a tomboy.
         
         She always bought me dolls and everything.
         She knew I didn't want dolls.
         They'd just sit there in my room.
      
      
         What about them dogs?
         Hum?
      
      
         Oh the dogs.
         I don't, I don't really remember some of the dogs, but I remember more what she told me.
         I remember being and having the dogs all around.
         That was before Debbie was born.
         I was like three or four.
         And there's pictures, pictures of me with the dogs.
         Mama said there was like six dogs that run through the neighborhood.
         And she said, she was always playing with me, that, and she said she never worried about them hurting me.
         She said that I was up in a tree or something and she told me to come to her.
         
         And she started, started pulling me or something, I don't remember exactly, so the dogs circled her and snarled and growled at her and she got, backed back into the house.
         And I wouldn't come in because I knew I was going to get a whipping for climbing up in that tree.
         And later, I guess I forgot and she knew I would.
         I guess she bribed me to come in with some candy and, and then she tore my tail up.
         She said it still didn't stop me
      from hanging around with the dogs or anything she felt like they, because, protected me I could stay out in the yard for hours and she'd check on me like every 15 minutes and I was taken care of.
         She said nobody else would bother me either.
         Said never occurred to her that those dogs might hurt me but they never did.
         Said I always had a gift for animals
      I guess because I was never afraid of them.
         Now that I'm older I've grown afraid of them and they can tell it.
         
      
      
         What about your secret garden?
      
      
         Oh yeah.
         I was, when I was in junior high, in eighth grade.
      
      
         Hum.
         What happened?
      
      
         Went through, we'd ride bikes through the woods and everything.
         I loved to ride bikes.
         Rode bikes for a long time until I was a big old girl.
         And we went into the woods and there was bunch of vines that covered like a blanket.
         And I'd walk through those vines and it was real shady and cool.
         It'd be like 10 or 15 degrees cooler than it was outside.
         And there were big rocks and a nice creek, big giant rocks.
         I'd sit our there and read
      or whatever.
         It was just peaceful.
         And I took Mama out there one time and asked her if she'd spend the day with me.
         Just one time because she always worked she didn't have much time to spend with us.
         That was after she left Daddy.
         
         I got her a bicycle; I borrowed a bicycle for her.
         She pushed it most of the way.
         She couldn't ride it.
         It hurt her legs.
         I couldn't understand that.
         I thought it was a whole lot easier to ride that bike than walking.
         Fixed us a picnic lunch and she brought a book and we went out there.
         And she still talks about that.
         She really liked it.
         She said it was really just as beautiful as I always said it was.
         It's gone now.
      
      
         Bulldozed over.
         A new project slapped up.
      
      
         I don't know who it belonged to.
         It was out behind the houses.
      
      
         That was over on Arrowood Road.
      
      
         No that was, um, that was in Huntersville.
         When Mama left Daddy we went and moved out to Huntersville.
      
      
         Oh.
      
      
         For a little while.
         We used to go in the woods back by, back off Arrowood Road.
         I lived in Windsong Trail that's right across the street when we lived on Arrowood Road.
         We didn't move very far that time.
         We'd go out there and pick blackberries and sell them, out in the woods.
         I had a friend of mine, he huffed a can of ( ) and died when he was camping out.
         And uh, one of his guys, buddies that was with him just got sick and ended up in the hospital.
         [Long pause] I think everybody cried.
         
         He was a popular boy.
      
      
         Kids just don't know how easy it is to die.
      
      
         Well so huffing is nothing new, they did it when I was kid.
         I didn't hear about it as much then as I do now though.
         
         And boy he'd take up for, um, all the underdogs.
         So a lot of people were sad.
         
         I hung around with, uh, one girl and, um, two guys and then later we, uh, had another girl join our group.
         I hung around with them boys from the fourth grade on up to through to high school.
         But when Mama left Daddy and everything and we moved away and then moved back I still went to school with them.
         
         Kenny, Kenny, huh
      .
         He died not too long ago on a motorcycle.
      
      
         Didn't you go up in the mountains for a summer or something, with your aunt?
      
      
         Yeah.
         One week out of the summer, every year.
      
      
         \\Where they live\\?
      
      
         \\ ( )\\ They lived in, um, Black Mountain for a long time and then they moved to ( ) another mountain.
      
      
         That's in NC?
      
      
         Uh huh.
         
      
      
         So you never did leave the state, did you?
      
      
         Um uh.
      
      
         I know Earl use to take y'all to the beach didn't he?
      
      
         Yeah, we went every weekend to the beach.
         That was the highlight.
         We went to the beach every weekend.
         Go fishing at the pier.
         
      
      
         What did you do up in the mountains?
      
      
         Everything.
      
      
         Did you make a quilt?
      
      
         No.
      
      
         Did you churn butter?
      
      
         No.
         They were more modern up there than we were down here.
         
         My aunt and uncle were teachers and principals.
         She had a boy that was about Debbie's age.
         And she'd take me to, uh, not, not every year, but there were some years she'd take me to a day camp because she wanted me to play with kids my age and she didn't have any.
         And she'd take me out shopping and buy me all kind of new clothes.
         She wanted a little girl
      and I was it.
         Because all my boy cousins got to go up there and stay every summer too for a week.
         And she said they about run her crazy.
         She said I was the only slow time she got.
         She said I'd help her and everything and I enjoyed helping her.
         Went to the library.
      
      
         Did you ever go horseback riding or anything?
      
      
         Yes.
         
         I didn't go horseback riding up in the mountains.
         Mama paid for my lessons down here in Charlotte.
         And then she couldn't pay for them anymore so I started working in the stables to continue then.
         It was English, English style, back riding.
         
         I used to skip school during junior high and steal a pony and return it and go back home.
         Did that a lot.
         [Long pause]
      
      
         Remember anything else as a
      child?
      
      
         I remember a lot of things I'm just not going to put it on this tape.
         
         
         Then my children will hear it and then try to pull it too.
         
         I'm still friends with some of my high school, elementary school and junior high friends.
         I see them about once every six months or a year.
         Some more often than that.
      
      
         Who was your best friend?
      
      
         Well, Kenny and Billy were my best friends until I met Angie.
         Angie, was, I've known Angie as long as Kenny and Billy, but she was more into boys for other reasons than what I was and I was just not mature enough for boys yet except to play with.
         So she kind of bored me.
         She ended up having like six kids later with three or four different guys.
         I really don't know.
      
      
         So I guess you haven't talked to her in a long time.
      
      
         Not since um, I had Justin.
         I seen her the last time when I had Justin.
         Not since Marshall was born.
         Worked at BP Oil on Park Rd.
         , she used to come in there all the time.
         That was on the south side of town.
         We were raised on the south side of town.
      
      
         That side sure has grown up hasn't it?
      
      
         There are still parts over there I still don't recognize.
      
   

   
   
      
         This is an interview with Justin Lee White, son of Tammy White, grandson of Flora Miller.
         
         What do you remember as a young child?
         Since you're a young child it should be fresh in your mind right now.
         Justin?
      
      
         Um.
         
         I don't know.
      
      
         Where you live at?
      
      
         Um, Number One Black Street.
      
      
         Number One Black Street.
         Where's that at?
      
      
         Um.
         Lowell.
      
      
         Lowell.
         That's in Gaston County?
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         How long you lived here?
      
      
         Um.
         Nine years.
      
      
         Nine years.
         That's your whole life isn't?
      
      
         Yes it is.
      
      
         Almost your whole life.
         
         Do you remember moving here?
      
      
         Um-mm.
      
      
         What do you remember about this place then, huh?
         What do you do during summertime?
      
      
         Fishing.
      
      
         Fishing.
         What else you do during the summertime?
         How about all your friends get together?
      
      
         Play.
         Play.
      
      
         Play.
         What do you play?
      
      
         Records and Army.
      
      
         Army.
         What happened across the road there?
      
      
         We threw dirt bombs at each other.
      
      
         Yeah.
         So, what used to be over there?
      
      
         Um, woods.
      
      
         Tell us about them woods and what you used to do in them.
      
      
         Um, climb trees.
      
      
         Climbing trees?
         
         What else?
      
      
         Um.
         
         Um.
         I used to play ( )
      
      
         What did you do underneath them vines?
      
      
         Hide.
      
      
         All right.
         Didn't you have a little house underneath them vines?
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         Yeah.
         Yeah, and all different kinds of stuff.
         Tell me about it.
         What did you have under there?
      
      
         We had um, a hammer ( ) and some nails and a couple of pieces of wood.
         And um, chairs and a sh, shelf and a table.
      
      
         Who all knew about that place?
      
      
         Me and my friend Zack and Bobby and ( ) and Eric and his mother and you and mom.
      
      
         
         Who was your best friend last summer?
      
      
         Uh,
         last summer, Zachary and Bobby.
      
      
         Zachary and Bobby.
         What did y'all do last summer?
      
      
         We did all kinds of stuff.
      
      
         Could you be more definite?
      
      
         Yeah.
         Oh wow, all what, what we did was we climbed them trees and we got um, and we tore down limbs and stuff and added to them, added to the club
         .
         And we played tag, and hide `n' seek
         all kinds of stuff.
         
         Um, and
         you helped us build some stuff.
      
      
         I did?
      
      
         Um-huh.
         That table.
      
      
         What about the trampoline?
      
      
         Yeah we had a trampoline.
      
      
         What could you do on it?
      
      
         Back flips.
      
      
         Back flips?
         What else?
      
      
         Um.
         Front flips.
         
         Sideways.
         
      
      
         Tell me a story.
      
      
         A story about what?
      
      
         About jumping off a tree house onto the trampoline.
      
      
         About jumping off the tree house onto the trampoline or something.
      
      
         I used to do a back flip off of it.
         And I can do a front flip, but I land on my stomach.
         [Long pause]
      
      
         Did your mom want you jumping off the trampoline?
      
      
         Nope, uh um.
      
      
         Did you stop?
      
      
         Uh um.
         
      
      
         What you like more, school or getting out for summer?
      
      
         Getting out for the summer.
         
         But what I like more now is going to school.
      
      
         That's good.
         Do you like your teachers?
      
      
         Um huh.
         Back then or now?
      
      
         Anytime you want to think about talking about your teachers, you go right ahead.
         Tell me about your teacher from last year.
         You've been with her all year, you can tell me things about her.
      
      
         Her name--
      
      
         What was her name?
      
      
         Ms. Townsend.
      
      
         Ms. Townsend.
         Was she a good teacher?
      
      
         Yeah.
         She was loud though.
      
      
         She was loud?
         Did you learn a lot from her?
      
      
         Um-huh.
      
      
         Then she's a good teacher isn't she?
         Because a good teacher teaches you something, right?
      
      
         Um-huh, and the year before that I had Ms. Smitton was it, and she was even louder.
      
      
         She was?
         Was she a good teacher?
      
      
         Yeah.
         
      
      
         Why were they all so loud?
      
      
         I don't know.
      
      
         Because you were so noisy?
      
      
         Um-huh.
      
      
         Well, what you do this year?
         Who's your teacher?
      
      
         Miss Sanger.
      
      
         Miss who?
      
      
         Miss Sanger.
      
      
         Miss Sanger, this year?
      
      
         Yep.
         Yep.
         Yep.
         
      
      
         Do you like her?
      
      
         Yep.
         She's probably going to be my best teacher.
      
      
         She is?
         Wow.
         She um, what do you learn in her class?
         Give me some of the things that you learned in that class.
      
      
         Mathematics.
      
      
         Mathematics.
         That's adding and subtracting and what else you do?
      
      
         Multiplying.
      
      
         Multiplying.
      
      
         Dividing.
      
      
         Dividing.
         Wow.
         What else did you do in that class?
         I know you did more than that in there.
      
      
         Um.
         We did science.
      
      
         Science.
         That's interesting.
      
      
         A lot of Social Studies.
      
      
         A lot of Social Studies.
      
      
         And
         we read.
      
      
         Do you play any games or anything?
      
      
         Yeah.
         Um, Connect Four and um, Guess Who?
         , and Dominoes.
         
      
      
         What about computer lab?
      
      
         Computer lab?
      
      
         What do you do in computer lab?
      
      
         I, uh, just play games.
         Accelerator and ( ).
      
      
         So what do you do after you get out from school?
      
      
         After I get off from school?
         I, uh, go to the, get on the bus and go to school, I mean go to um, Boys' Club and if it's not on Friday I don't.
         We, um, sit down and eat our snack and homework and after that we play pool and we go in the gym and have fun
         and then we go home.
         And our dads and moms come.
      
      
         What do you do in the gym?
         Play basketball or something?
      
      
         Um, yeah, play basketball.
      
      
         What else can you do in there?
      
      
         Kickball, play Frisbee,
         run around.
      
      
         You any good in basketball?
      
      
         Uh-um.
      
      
         That don't mean you stopped trying?
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Still trying to be good at basketball?
      
      
         Um-huh.
         I'm really good at pool.
      
      
         You're really good at playing pool.
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         Where'd you learn that from?
      
      
         Rusty, you and Tony.
      
      
         Who's your brothers now?
      
      
         Tony and Marshall.
      
      
         How old is Tony?
         Do you know?
      
      
         14.
      
      
         Wow, he's a big boy now isn't he?
      
      
         Um-huh.
      
      
         How about your old, younger brother, Marshall?
      
      
         Monster?
         
      
      
         Monster?
      
      
         Um-huh.
         Monster or Marshall.
      
      
         How old is he?
      
      
         He's eight.
         
         I am ten.
         
      
      
         So where you go fishing at?
         
      
      
         Down yonder.
      
      
         
         Where is, where is `yonder?
         '
      
      
         I don't know.
         I don't know nothing.
         ( )
      
      
         How about down by that river.
         Tell me about how you get down there.
      
      
         I don't know.
         I haven't been down there in a long time.
      
      
         Tell us the story about you and Marshall and Tony.
      
      
         Um, we play ball in the house.
         ( )
      
      
         What's your favorite cartoon show?
      
      
         Pokemon!
         
         My favorite grown up movie is Stepmom.
      
      
         For now, right?
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         For now, I'm sure you'll find another one.
      
      
         My favorite scary movie is, I don't know my favorite scary movie.
         There are lots--
      
      
         Why do you like scary movies so much?
      
      
         I don't know, because they're scary.
         Because it's something to scare me and--.
         ( ) [Long pause]
      
      
         Since this is so close to Christmastime, what do you want Santa Claus to bring you?
      
      
         Pokemon, Pokemon, Pokemon, Pokemon!
      
      
         Pokemon?
         ?
      
      
         What was Tony doing today?
      
      
         Teasing me.
         Taking stuff from me.
      
      
         Is that all?
      
      
         Yeah.
         And mad at me.
      
      
         Is that a good thing to do?
      
      
         What?
      
      
         Is that a good thing to do?
      
      
         ( )
      
      
         What does Marshall do that makes you mad?
      
      
         Everything.
      
      
         So you don't care too much for Marshall?
      
      
         Yeah, I care about him a lot.
      
      
         Do you love him?
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         You just don't get along with him, right?
      
      
         
         Right.
      
      
         Who do you trust and tell all the secret stuff?
      
      
         You, Daddy and Tony.
      
      
         You trust him, but you don't like him, right?
      
      
         Right.
      
   

   
   
      
         This is a conversation between Denise Slavich and her mother, Fran Worthington, on February 16, year 2000.
         And Mom, what, what would you like to talk about today?
      
      
         Oh, when I was a little girl.
         And we'll begin at the beginning.
         I was born on May 3rd, 1937, which was shortly after the end of the Depression.
         My mother, your grandmother, was 36 years old and your grandfather, my father, was 45.
         And I was an only child, the reason being that, I know now, she was probably an RH Negative person because she had had one child stillborn, three years before I was born and miscarried in her seventh or eighth month, when I was, uh, six years before I was born.
         So the doctors told her she should never, ever try to have another child.
         And her comment was, "Watch me!"
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         So, she kept trying and got pregnant with me, and carried me to full term and so, since she was, and my dad were both much older, I was a terribly spoiled brat.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Because I was their only child and they knew I was going to be their only child and, within reason, I got just about anything I wanted that they could afford, I got.
      
      
         Oh wow!
      
      
         But, um, being an only child was sort of a lonely life, but it was interesting, because I spent a lot of time with grown-ups.
         And my mother was, never, ever knew her father.
         He died about three months before she was born.
         He was a railroad engineer, and he was working on the, down on the Pee Dee River in SC and got malaria and died.
      
      
         I never knew that.
      
      
         Yeah.
         So my grandmother, whose name was Frances, raised her children all by herself.
         My mother, whose name was Julius, she was named for her father since he died.
         Her name was Julius, which in, I mean which was not a woman's name.
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         Her name was Julius Wellington Culbreth.
      
      
         That's a very masculine name.
      
      
         Yeah, exactly.
         And she was the youngest of three girls.
         And, um, then my grandmother died when I was three years old, so I never really, really knew her.
         But everyone called her Mama Frank.
      
      
         Huh.
      
      
         And that's where I got the name, \\"Mama Fran"\\ for the grandchildren to call me.
      
      
         Oh!
         I never knew that!
      
      
         Yeah.
         And I didn't think about it until the grandchildren started coming along and we were thinking about what to call people and it suddenly popped in my mind, that's what my grandmother's name was, Mama Frank.
         And I was named Frances Jeanette for both of my grandmothers.
         My father's mother was Jeanette, and she was, had died long before I was born.
         And neither one of my grandfathers were alive.
         So I never had any grandparents.
         And I really missed that.
         And my dad was the, the, uh, next to the youngest of 11 children.
         So since he was 45 when I was born, all my first cousins had children older than I was.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         So I would go out and see my second cousins, not my first cousins because they were all old people as far as I was concerned.
         But when I was, I think one of my earliest recollections, was when I was three years old, Mama and Daddy and I went down to, to FL.
         And I remember, going through the lobby of the hotel where we stayed at with my bathing suit on and with one of those God-awful swim caps that everybody that you see when you look in the 40s movies and it felt like I was in a vacuum when I was walking!
         I could hear my feet in my ears!
         Going clunk, clunk, clunk!
      
      
         Was it one of the swim caps with the flowers?
      
      
         No it didn't have flowers, just the swim caps with the, the strap that hooked all the way under.
         And no matter what you did, your hair still got wet!
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         I think you were supposed to be totally vacuum-proof and all that stuff!
         But it still got wet.
         But that's one of the memories I have of walking across the lobby of the hotel and going clunk, clunk, clunk as I was walking across and then going swimming.
         And another memory I have is, my mother had a terrible, severe sinus condition.
         So every summer, up until I was, probably six or seven, we spent the entire summer down at, at, uh, Carolina Beach.
         And I would get so tan!
         I mean I would just get absolutely, totally dark brown!
         And my mother would say to me, "Frances Jeanette!
         If you get any darker, they're going to make you sit in the back of the bus!"
      
      
         Oh my gosh!
      
      
         Because that was when segregation was still on and at the, uh, department stores, they had separate water fountains and separate bathrooms for colored and white.
         And when you rode on a bus, the colored had to sit in the back and the white people sat in the front.
      
      
         How did that feel?
         I mean seeing that happen?
      
      
         Normal.
         Because it was the way things were.
         I mean, that's just the way it was.
      
      
         Wow!
      
      
         And we had, a, a, uh, a colored maid who came, gosh, about twice a week, whose name was Carrie.
         And she was just like my other mother.
         She, she bathed me and played with me and took care of me.
         Even then when my mother died, she came to the funeral.
         I mean, she was just like a member of the family.
      
      
         Wow!
      
      
         But um, let's see.
         When I was four?
         1941, yeah, was when they had Pearl Harbor.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And since we lived in Fayetteville, they decided to immediately expand Fort Bragg.
         So, um, we lived on Fort Bragg Rd, which, at that point, was the only road between Fayetteville and Fort Bragg.
         And with all the added construction and all that, from six in the morning until nine, it was bumper-to-bumper traffic on this little two-lane road going to Fort Bragg.
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         From four o'clock until seven, coming back, it was bumper-to-bumper traffic, coming back from Fort Bragg.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         So, you couldn't cross the street, you couldn't turn in or turn out or anything, it was just really, really crazy, because they were doing such incredible construction out there.
         And I remember all the headlights on all the cars were painted black for the first half, the first, the top semi-circle was black so that when if you went out at night, the light would shine just down on the road and not straight ahead.
         Everybody had window shades, you didn't have blinds back then, but everybody had window shades that were blackout shades and you had to pull them down at night before you turned on any of the lights, because everyone was deathly afraid that the Germans or the Japanese were going to come bomb us.
         Not that they ever did or--
      
      
         \\
         \\
      
      
         \\ --I don't think \\ they ever planned on it, but everyone was quite sure that that was going to happen.
      
      
         Looking back it almost seems silly.
      
      
         Yeah, it does but yet, yet there's, they have found evidence that there were, um, uh, submarines off the coast down in Wilmington.
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         But um, you know, we were all pretty, pretty much panicked.
         And everyone, when you got chewing gum, you saved the aluminum wrapper.
         It was waxed paper with aluminum on the outside.
         You always peeled off the aluminum and made great big balls for, that was the earliest recycling.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Everyone saved all their tin cans, um, and crushed them and put, took them to be recycled and be reused.
         There was rationing of gas, um, sugar, flour, any of, of the real, uh, staple things that a lot of people would use a lot of if they could.
         And you had a, it looked like a book of S&H green stamps.
         You got a booklet of stamps every month and several pages would be for gas, and several pages would be for flour or for butter or for, um, sugar, and you could only use X number of stamps to buy whatever you wanted to buy that, that month and then you had to wait until the next month.
         And since your dad, your, your grandfather worked for the post office, this was a critical job because he had to get the mail in and out, and he got an extra ration of gas because he had to drive back and forth to work.
      
      
         Oh, wow!
      
      
         So that was pretty special.
      
      
         Yeah.
         Now did you notice, did you have a wanting of things during that time?
      
      
         No, no.
         We had, um, we had chickens, your dad, your grandfather raised chickens, and uh, we'd always get them at Easter, well you know, dyed pink and blue and green and all that sort of thing.
         I'd get the little biddies and they'd become full-grown chickens and, uh, your grandmother would gather the eggs and sold them to a lot of her neighbors.
         We had, uh, I mean we didn't, I didn't know that I was supposedly being deprived of stuff because there was plenty to have because we had all, all of your grandfather's brothers and sisters had farms, we were the only ones that lived in the city, or the town of Fayetteville, it was the big city.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         But we'd go out and get ham and, uh, beef and, you know all that kind of thing from them.
         Sausage and pork chops and so forth and such, and any kind of fresh vegetables, so we always had food.
         And your granddaddy had a huge garden in the back and he grew, never could grow carrots, they were always awful, but he grew potatoes and collards, spinach and green beans, and those yellow crook-necked squash.
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         You remember those.
      
      
         The squash and potatoes recipe.
      
      
         Exactly.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         So he, he had a very successful garden and he'd go to work at probably six o'clock in the morning and he'd be home by four in the afternoon.
         He'd go out and work in the garden until dark.
         So we really didn't, I mean I wasn't aware of, of, wanting for anything.
      
      
         Except for the piano lessons.
      
      
         Oh, well, yeah because we, there was gas rationing.
         Well, to back up, when I was just learning to walk, your grandmother and grandfather told me that when we'd go down to the beach and spend the summer at the beach, back then there was no air conditioning whatsoever, and so all the, the bars and the stores and everything on the boardwalks would have screened-in, screened doors on the front.
         And any place we'd go by when I was walking with them, I'd have my hands up in the air and they'd be holding either hand--
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         --and when we'd go by any place that had a juke box playing, I had to stop and jog up and down in time to the music.
         When I was little bitty, so they knew I loved music.
         And my mother sang in the choir, and uh, in fact that's where she met Leola.
         She and Leola best friends-- first and second altos and all that, but she knew I'd probably love music, and when I first learned to walk, she said I'd walk over to the piano and reach way up and start playing the keys.
         And I never would bang; I'd play one key at a time, with one finger.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         And she'd put me up on the piano bench and would know for at least 30 or 45 minutes exactly where I was because I was sitting there playing the piano.
         So when I was four, all my little friends were going take, ballet and tap dance lessons and I wanted to, but they encouraged me to play
         take piano lessons because the piano teacher lived right around the corner and the dance teacher was all the way on the other side of town, where her dance studio was.
         So, for fifty cents and hour, I took piano lessons.
         And I went around once a week, because I could walk.
         She, Mother would cross the street with me and then I could walk to the piano teacher, whose name was, oh gosh, what was her name?
         Dorothy Russell.
         And she taught for years and years.
         I took from her until I was 15.
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         And I think she taught just about everybody in town who wanted to learn to play the piano because she had, she had this
         I never will forget, she had this great big Chow dog, the one, the kind with the black tongue, and I was petrified of that dog!
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         She always kept him in the backyard, so I never went in the backyard.
         I'd always go in the front door there instead of going around to the back.
         I hadn't thought about that until just now, for a long time.
         But it was, it was fun playing the piano, and I, and then when I was six, no when I was five
         the next year, I was actually in the recital.
         And I couldn't play any pieces that, where the notes spanned an octave because my fingers weren't long enough until I was about nine.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         But I was in the recital and, every time, every year, it seemed like before, right before recital time I'd be out playing with somebody and fall down and skin my knees.
         And mother would make this great big, fancy dress with a real full, fluffy skirt, and she'd make a bow to match to wear on my hair, and I'd have Mercurochrome scabs on both knees.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         So, she always would get real upset with me with that, but that's life.
         Because since I didn't have any brothers or sisters to play with, we lived right next door to Westlawn Elementary School, and when I started school, the bell would start ringing and I could leave the house and run across the playground and get there before it stopped.
         So I was never late.
         But I'd come home from school every afternoon and sit down and had to practice the piano for an hour, and then people would knock on the door and they'd say, "Mrs. Williams, can Frances come out to play?"
         And she'd say, "No, there, she's practicing her piano.
         Wait for another hour and then she can."
         But I played out on the, on the playground because we had swings and we had tennis courts, and, up until I was about 12, I played tackle football.
         And we had basketball goals and I played basketball with the guys, which was detrimental because at that point when you, girls basketball rules were different from boys.
         Instead of five players we had six.
         And there were three guards and three forwards.
         The guards could not cross the centerline and the forwards could not come back across the centerline either.
      
      
         Hmm.
      
      
         So you'd get the, if you were a guard, you'd get the ball and dribble.
         You had to stop at the centerline and pass it over to a forward, which was very unwieldy!
         Now they, I mean, I forget when they changed the rules, but finally they started playing by boys ' rules.
      
      
         So when you played with the boys that would mess you up for playing with the girls?
      
      
         Yeah.
         Well, I much preferred playing with the boys because I liked to dribble all the way around and go up for a lay-up or something.
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         And I was, since I was tall, they always liked for, to have me on their team.
         But uh, that, that was fun, and, let's see--
      
      
         What did you guys, in, in, in your family, with a, with Grandma and Granddaddy, I mean, what kind of trips did you take when you were little?
      
      
         Oh, let's see, one time we went up to, oh, to the Skyline Dr. We went up, I re--, something, when I was about four, I think.
         We went up, your dad, your grandfather, was trying desperately to get back in the army.
         He wanted to serve and do his duty.
         He had been in WWI but he wanted to get back into the army.
         And he was 50 at this point in time, or 51.
         And we went down to Atlanta for him to talk to people down there and they told him that they couldn't do anything so if he really wanted to be in the army he needed to come back and go up to the Pentagon.
         So we drove up to Washington, and he went to the Pentagon and tried really hard for them to take him back and they said that what he was doing with the post office was in the best interest of the government and the country and he could serve much better by getting the mail to the soldiers.
         So they told him, "No," but while we were up there, it was Easter weekend and I rolled Easter eggs on the White House lawn.
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         And that was, that was when, uh, Roosevelt was president, and he and Mrs. Roosevelt came out and shook hands with all of us.
         All the children.
         It was really, it was an interesting experience.
      
      
         Oh, I bet.
      
      
         And then coming back, we came back through Roanoke, VA and then were on the Skyline Drive, and Daddy said, "We're going to go to Roanoke and there's Roanoke Mountain there."
         Or Roan Mountain, anyway, there's supposed to be a mountain right in the middle of Roanoke.
         So I was thinking, having looked at all my books, school books, that it was going to be like the Rockies.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         --with snow and, you know, crags, a, and rocks and all that sort of thing.
         And I was so disappointed when we got there because we drove up and up and I said, "Well where's the mountain Daddy?"
         And he said, "We're on it," and it was, of course, covered with trees and there were no rocks and there was no snow--
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         --and I was so disappointed.
         It just really burst my bubble.
         
            RECORDING PAUSED THEN CONTINUED
      
      
         Well since we were interrupted by the phone, now we're continuing.
      
      
         Yes.
      
      
         Um
         let's see, where were we?
      
      
         We were driving up Roan Mountain.
      
      
         Yeah, but then we, after we left Roanoke, we did get on the Skyline Drive and it was absolutely a beautiful, view, but there just weren't any mountains with rocks on them.
         So, that was one of the trips we took.
         A lot of times
         most, I guess most of the traveling we did was from Fayetteville down to the beach.
      
      
         Right, to Carolina Beach?
      
      
         To Carolina Beach.
         Every summer.
         And that was fun.
         And, uh, oh!
         I've got to tell you
         .
         Remember the, the birthmark I have on my leg?
         (Looks for birthmark) It's that little brown spot.
         
         Well, where is it?
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Anyway, I have a birthmark on my leg.
      
      
         I think I remember.
      
      
         Yeah, it's just a little brown
         right there.
         (Points to birthmark)
      
      
         Yeah, yeah.
      
      
         My mother told me that it was a Coca-Cola mark.
      
      
         \\ A Coca-Cola mark?
         \\
      
      
         \\ Because \\ when she was pregnant with me, she and Daddy would go down to the beach, because, again for her sinus condition, the salt air was really good for her, and she said that Daddy would not stop because she wanted to stop and get a Coca-Cola and he wouldn't stop.
         
         And she held her hands right behind her knees, I don't know why, but just in anxiety or something so he would stop and get her a Coke.
         So she swears that little mark is a Coca-Cola mark.
         And that may be why I like Coca-Cola so well.
      
      
         You inherited the addiction?
      
      
         Yeah, yeah, I guess I did.
         But, um, growing up in Fayetteville was fun.
         It was a small town that's grown a lot since then, but we had a lot of fun with all my friends riding bicycles and, just hanging out together.
         They'd come over and we'd just hang out in the driveway and, roller- skate or play with their dogs or whatever.
         I had a little dog, a toy terrier named Fifi.
      
      
         I never knew of Fifi.
      
      
         Yeah, I got Fifi when I was, gosh, four or five, and that poor dog was one
         I put her through so much!
         I'd dress her up in doll clothes--
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         --and make her ride in, in the doll carriage, and I'd pick her up, with her front paws and make her dance with me, and we'd walk all over the place.
         I mean, she just, she was my companion because I didn't have brothers or sisters.
         And, but the only time I was really, really, um, lonely was the year that we had the polio epidemic.
         And that started, I think that was in, gosh, '46 or '47, and, uh, everybody was quarantined.
         You couldn't go, children could not go downtown, and, and this was long before Salk ever did the vaccine and with the polio epidemic, when people got Polio they had to be put in iron lungs that would breathe for them.
      
      
         Oh, wow.
      
      
         You may have seen pictures of them.
      
      
         I've heard of it.
      
      
         They were, they were great big, uh, metal tubes that opened, uh, and the only thing you could see was, uh, your head and your feet.
      
      
         Oh, wow.
      
      
         And it was pressurized so it would make you breathe in and out because they really were paralyzed.
         They called it Infantile Paralysis, or polio.
         But anyway, everybody was quarantined, we could, children had, could not go out of their own yard, they
         we couldn't go to church, couldn't go to movies, we couldn't go anywhere.
         We could ride in the car.
         I could ride in the car with, with Mother and Daddy, we'd go for a Sunday afternoon drive or something, but, I had nobody to play with.
         But fortunately, there was a, another only child girl who lived right across the street from us.
         So, her name was Joy Teeter, and she would come out on the sidewalk with her dolls and I'd come out on the sidewalk with my dolls, and we'd play dolls together across the street from each other!
      
      
         
         Across the street!
      
      
         Yeah.
      
      
         Oh, that's so sweet!
      
      
         Yeah.
         And we'd also, we'd draw hopscotch things on the, the sidewalk and play hopscotch together, and, you know, just any kind of little games we could devise.
         And we did, we'd do that for a couple hours a day.
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         And that was our only contact with any other child.
      
      
         How long were you quarantined?
      
      
         
         I think, it started right after school was out in May, and until school started the following September.
      
      
         Was it scary, any time you would get the sniffles, or--?
      
      
         No, I was always healthy, so nothing happened, but several people in, in town did get polio and, and had to spend time in the Iron Lung as they called it.
      
      
         Did they recover or, was it fatal?
      
      
         I think they all recovered, but a couple of them had a, a recur, recurring touch of paralysis.
         Um, you know, one boy, in particular, I remember, had a, always had a limp after that.
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         So, it was, it was scary.
         And, of course, I think the pa, the parents panicked more than the children did.
         
         We were just pissed off
         because we couldn't go play with anybody else or see anybody or anything.
         That, that's the only time I really, really regretted being an only child.
      
      
         What did your parents do during that time, I mean, to make it more fun for you, or--?
      
      
         Oh, bought me lots of coloring books and, uh, Mother made clothes for my baby dolls and uh, we'd, like I said, we'd go for rides, it was a long way out from Fayetteville to Fort Bragg at the point in time, and now there's, you know, they, they're, have the same, uh, boundary, but we'd ride out and listen to, on every Sunday afternoon, the army band had a band concert.
      
      
         Like at South Park.
      
      
         Yeah, like at South Park.
         And we'd ride out and I'd have to stay in the car, but we'd ride out and Daddy would park and we'd roll down the windows so I could hear the band.
         And obviously we didn't, nobody had TV, it wasn't
         nobody had it at that point in time, so I listened to the radio a lot.
         There were, uh, The Lone Ranger and all those serial programs.
         The, The Green Hornet, and The Phantom, and Big John and Sparky, and Amos and, and Andy, and uh, Fibber McGee and Molly, and--.
         
         There were a lot of radio shows, um, uh, oh shoot, what's his name, the guy that just died not recently, not too long ago, the uh, the comic, the one who did Oh God--
      
      
         Oh, um--
      
      
         (Long pause) George Burns.
      
      
         George Burns.
      
      
         George Burns and Gracie Allen.
         They had a show.
         So there were a lot of radio shows, and I, I read a lot.
      
      
         What, yeah, what, what would you read?
      
      
         Oh, all the Nancy Drew books, and all the um, I read a lot of sports books about football and baseball, and Mother would go to the library and just bring home a whole stack of them.
         So I did a lot of reading, and, uh, playing out in the yard, I'd help, when Daddy would come home, I'd help him out in the garden.
         So, I, I really didn't lack for things to do but they just were sort of lonely things.
      
      
         Right.
         How did your mom feel about, you being a tomboy?
      
      
         She
         , well, she said I was her little girl and I was, I was Daddy's little boy.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         --or little "tomboy", because he taught me how to, he was, he was sort of a jack-of-all-trades, so he did a lot of, he built, when we had the chickens, he built the chicken houses.
         He'd bring home all the two-by-fours and the siding and the shingles and stuff, and he'd build them all himself.
         And I'd help him.
         I'd hold the ladder or whatever.
         And then I, graduated to nailing this and that and sawing this and that and so forth.
         And one time he was building a, a chicken house and I said, "Daddy, that would make a great playhouse for me."
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         And so, instead of putting it up on stilts, like he did the chicken houses, he made it into a little playhouse.
      
      
         Ooh!
      
      
         It had a door that opened and shut and locked.
         It had, uh, a window in the front, had a front porch, had a window that went up and down in the front, and a window that went up and down in the back.
         And had shelves and, it was a pretty interesting little playhouse, and I'd go, I kept all my dolls and stuff out there and I'd go out there and play for hours, and all my, friends would come over and we'd have such fun, and we'd had a couple of little rocking chairs and we sat out on the front porch.
      
      
         Oh, that's sweet.
      
      
         It was, it was a neat little playhouse.
         When we sold the house, the people that bought it had children, and they were just delighted because they had somewhere for their kids to play.
         And something else you probably don't know
         .
         The house that we lived in on Fort Bragg Road, was, um, very modern for it's time and had two bathrooms.
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         And not too many houses built back then had two.
         But it was a two-story house, and on the front, on the first level, you'd come in the front door.
         On the left was a living room with a fireplace.
         On the right was a dining room and there were stairs going upstairs between that.
         And behind the dining room was a little, small room that they called a breakfast room, which was just because they had a wall between that and the kitchen.
         And there was a kitchen.
         Behind the living room was another room that we could, today we call them `dens,' but back then they called them, `sitting rooms.
         ' Then it had a wrap-around, um, screened-in porch--
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         --and a bathroom between the sitting room and the kitchen was a bathroom and also the door to the stairs to go down to the basement, because we had a coal-fired furnace.
         And then upstairs there were two huge rooms, one on either side of the house and a bath at the top of the stairs.
         So when they completed all the, um, building out at Fort Bragg and brought in so many troops, every Sunday when we went to church, Mother and Daddy would bring home at least one, and usually two, GIs who were there in their uniforms and looked very forlorned; they would bring them home for Sunday dinner.
      
      
         Oh that's nice!
      
      
         And finally, um, Daddy converted the whole upstairs into two efficiency apartments.
         So one bedroom had a stove and a refrigerator and they had to share the bath.
         And, well, each, each of the bedrooms had the separate stove and refrigerator and they shared a bath.
         And we would rent them to couples who were just going to be there while their husbands were going through training.
         And that was interesting!
         So
         they turned the, the dining room into Mama and Daddy's bedroom and the breakfast room was my bedroom--
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         --which was just about big enough for a bed and that was about it.
         But that was fun for me because I had somebody else to talk to.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And a couple of, of the families that lived there had a couple of children, if you could imagine four people sleeping, sleeping in one room.
      
      
         That would be tight!
      
      
         It was!
         It was necessary because the guys were going off to war and the, their wives didn't know when or if they would ever see them again.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         So they absolutely thought that every minute was precious.
         And for years and years afterwards we heard from these people.
         The sent Christmas cards and would write--
      
      
         Oh.
      
      
         It was just really nifty.
         And, um, something else I remember was, and you've probably seen this in the movies.
         Everybod y who had someone in the service had a star in their window so you'd always know.
         And then if, I think there were with a cer, a certain color, maybe a red background, and if, if the, the military member was liked, it became a white background.
         Something like that: I can't remember which colors there were, but there was a distinction.
      
      
         Yeah.
         I've heard of yellow ribbons.
      
      
         No.
         That was way longer
         , that was, "Tie a Yellow Ribbon `Round the--"
      
      
         
            Right.
      
      
         That was a long time after that.
         But everybody had
         , they called them `Victory Stars' or `Service Stars.
         ' And if you see any movies that were, well in, Saving Private Ryan, and when they were showing houses, uh, people back in the States, they had the stars.
         You probably didn't recognize or even know what it meant.
      
      
         Oh.
         I haven't seen it yet.
      
      
         Oh.
         OK.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Well, when you see it, when they show the stateside houses, you'll see the stars in the windows and that means that they have, how, how, many people they have in the service.
      
      
         Ooh.
      
      
         But, um, let's see.
         What else do you want to know?
      
      
         Hmm
         
         
      
      
         Did you know about me winning the piano competition?
      
      
         No!
      
      
         When I was, we sold the house, uh, on Fort Bragg Road and moved over to Circle Dr. And your grandmother was, she had a, had a, heart condition.
         I'm sure it was a congenital something or other because she always had to, to rest in the afternoon.
         She was never very, very healthy.
      
      
         I knew she died when you were young.
      
      
         Yeah, And, um, when I was 12, in October, when I was 12, she had a, stroke, or actually a blood clot and it went to her brain.
         It partially paralyzed her right side.
         And I was practicing the piano, doing all that sort of thing, and my teacher entered me into the competition for Classical Music for 16 and under.
      
      
         Wow!
      
      
         For the whole, for the state of NC.
      
      
         What an honor!
      
      
         And the competition was down in Wilmington and it was on the 17th of March, The Ides of March, and so, uh, she drove me down there, and, at that point Mother had had a stroke and was back in the hospital.
         So I went down and I played.
         And I won.
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         I was 12 years old and I won 16 and under for the whole state of NC, Classical Competition.
      
      
         What'd you play?
      
      
         Ooh,
         I can't even remember.
         I've got in this vault something or other.
         I can still play it.
         But it was fairly complicated.
         And I was, nervous and all that sort of thing, but anyway I won.
         And we got back to Fayetteville and, I went, the, the teacher took me to the hospital and I went up to see, and Daddy was there, he'd gotten off work and was there, and mother had slipped, she was sort of in and out of a coma and I told him I had won.
         And he went in and told her, and she regained consciousness enough to say, "I am so proud!"
      
      
         Oh my God!
      
      
         And, she died two days later.
      
      
         What a great thing that, you know, she came back long enough to--
      
      
         Yeah, exactly.
      
      
         --to know that.
      
      
         Exactly.
      
      
         Wow!
         That's powerful!
      
      
         And I was, I was really proud of that!
         I still have the little cup.
         I think on of the handles is broken off of it.
         But I still have it!
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         But I was pretty proud of that!
         And then
         I discovered boys and I didn't want to play the piano as much any more!
         
      
      
         Because Daddy had delusions that I would even go to Juilliard or Eastman School of Music.
      
      
         But hormones just kind of--
      
      
         Hormones kind of interfered, yeah.
         I wasn't dedicated enough to practice four, five or six hours every night.
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         But I had a good time with my piano!
         I played for all of the, the groups in the Glee Club and the Choral Group in all the little ensembles on school.
      
      
         Yeah?
         
         What kind of clubs were you in?
      
      
         Um, let's see
         .
         I was in the Tri-High Y, which is, I have, no idea, they probably don't even exist anymore, the High Y was for boys and the Tri-High Y was for girls.
         And I was in the National Honor Society, and I was in, the Glee Club and everything that went along with that.
         Um, when I took Spanish, I was in the Spanish Club.
         I was on the, um, the staff of the school newspaper; wrote a column for them.
         And, let's see, what else was I
         oh, I was in the Methodist Youth Fellowship in church, the MYF.
         And that's about it.
      
      
         So you were pretty busy!
      
      
         Yeah, I was.
         And I was, when I graduated from high school, I was Valedictorian and I also won the um, what the heck did they call it?
         The business, I think it was a business award, no, commercial award for being number one in the shorthand and typing classes.
         And I got that gold bracelet that I have, I was awarded for that.
         But back to, back to my birth mother, Julius, everybody called her Judy except for Daddy, he called her Julius.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         But she died in, in, gosh, 1951?
         Yeah, I was 12 years old, and, she died, then I was 13 May after she died.
         And that summer, her best friend was Leola Harvey.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         And so that summer Leola's sister, Lucille, whose husband had died three years before, came down from Richmond to visit for her annual summer visit.
         She came down and stayed usually a couple of months, all summer.
         And she and Leola, Leola brought her over to see Daddy for a condolence call, and sparks flew and they started going out and that's when they decided to get married and she became my stepmom.
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         And they got married in October after my mother died in March.
         Which at that point was highly, highly incensing!
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         I mean, you just, you had to mourn for a year.
         And I mean it was scandalous!
         So she had a lot of talk going on about her when she married Daddy and came down to Fayetteville.
         And, um, cried a lot about it because some people were very spiteful to her.
      
      
         It's hard to imagine grandmother being seen as a tart!
      
      
         Yea, yeah!
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         But I mean, and, you know, she had the best intentions and I really needed a mother.
         I was 12, 13 years old, and I needed a woman, and there was even talk of putting me in a foster home or in an orphanage because it was scandalous that I was a young girl living alone with my father!
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         Which, I mean, in 1951, yeah.
         But today there's nothing wrong with it.
         So Daddy was I think, he loved her a lot, but she also answered a lot of his prayers for how to take care of me and deal with me.
         Because I had just started my period, and I was, you know, having acne and he didn't know how to deal with all that stuff!
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         So he needed a woman to take care of me.
         And she was very glamorous and wore gorgeous clothes and dressed beautifully!
         And she taught me a lot and did a lot for me.
      
      
         Wow.
      
      
         And because my birth mother Judy was 5'2", and weighed about 145.
         So she was short and chubby.
         Sweetheart!
         A wonderful woman but it had, she and Leola had a lot of fun together and, but she was not classy.
      
      
         Right.
      
      
         She was a little country girl.
         Born and raised down in Cumberland County.
         Never lived anywhere else.
         And here was Lucille from the big city of Richmond--
         --Who wore high heels and stocking with the black seams up the back, and hats and had jewelry to go with every outfit and all that sort of thing.
         So, I mean, she just really swept daddy off his feet!
         And he was just absolutely, astounded by her because she was so incredible.
         And she entertained for him and, taught me a lot.
         She was just a great, great lady!
         And had always wanted a daughter, so there I was.
         And when they got married I was her only attendant and, her son, Alvin, was daddy's best man.
      
      
         That's sweet!
      
      
         Yeah.
         And Uncle Harmon gave her away.
      
      
         Hmm.
         I didn't know that.
      
      
         Yeah.
         So, what else?
      
      
         I think that's all.
      
      
         OK.
         Then turn off the tape.
      
      
         OK.
         Thanks for talking with me.
      
      
         You're welcome!
         My pleasure!
      
   

   
   
      
         Test, test I grew up in a very small town called Dacusville and that's in SC and here's the history behind Dacusville.
         It's a very small town that didn't or doesn't have a post office, doesn't have a grocery store, really only has a school and two gas stations.
         But we actually lived in the city of Easley and went to Pickens High School, but had also a different phone number.
         But anyway, there's some background of the type of small town that I grew up in.
         Um, my house was a house that sat on 15 acres of land, and I had, um, my mom and my dad and a three year old, older sister.
         Well at some point my dad decided that, uh, we needed to have goats, so we fenced in our front part of our yard, which was probably about six acres, and we got goats, and on, we also had other animals.
         Like we had a pony and we even actually had a ram at some point but that's another story.
         So we had these goats and they were in a fence, an electric fence, and we would have to cut the hay and bail the hay.
         Well I know I could not have been any older like six or seven years old when we had this pick-up truck that was a straight drive, and, or that's what we called in straight drive and that was a manual shift car or truck.
         And, um, I was really small and that's why I must have only been like six or seven because I couldn't do anything else.
         Um, I couldn't, um, help like bail the hay, pick up the hay, do anything because I was so small, so my mom and my dad and my older sister could, um, help collect the hay so my job became driving the truck and I could reach the pedals.
         I was tall enough to reach the pedals but my dad taught me how and I would get in that truck and drive around from point to point while they picked up the hay and put it in the truck and I'd drive the truck around and wherever it needed to go and they'd store the hay.
         So yeah, I learned how to drive at a very early age and needless to say my first car was a straight drive and no one, um, in that town really waited until they were 15 or 16 to drive.
         We all were driving pretty early because who's going to know about that far out that we didn't have a license so here's related, um, to driving.
         Another thing, uh, that I learned to, how to do very early on was drive a tractor.
         Of course because we had to have a tractor to cut the hay and do all the things that, you know, involved, I guess, in a semi quasi farm we were pretending to have.
         So my dad taught me how to drive this tractor and I thought I was big stuff because you sat up high on the tractor and you could see everything, and, you know, I could just drive it, and drive it, and drive it.
         Well, one Sunday afternoon it was early, no it was after church, um, before dinner was ready.
         I was out there and my dad said I could drive the tractor while we were waiting on dinner.
         So I was driving the tractor around, around, and around, and then I got called in for dinner, so I parked the tractor.
         Oh, our house also sat on a hill and, I think it sat on the top of a hill, and then the field and the fencing went down, and then across the street was my uncle's land and no one lived there.
         Over there it was another field that was fenced in and I don't think there were any animals over there, but it was a fenced in filed as well.
         So I parked this tractor at the top of our driveway, and I go in to eat dinner.
         So we eat and, I don't know, it probably takes about an hour, and I go back out.
         I want to ride the tractor.
         We go back outside for some reason and it wasn't there.
         And I don't have a clue as to what happened to it and I yell for my dad and we go out there and we start looking and we see trail marks all the way down the driveway through our field and then there is the tractor on the other side of the road in the fence.
         So guess what happened, I being the smart little, what, six year old that I was, decided that I forgot or didn't remember correctly that I had put the tractor in park and or in gear and not in neutral.
         I thought for sure, for sure I remembered that my dad said to put it in neutral.
         Yeah, well I remembered wrong so, uh, went over and got the tractor out and my dad drove it back, and I don't know what he did to the fence I'm sure that he fixed it I don't remember how badly it was damaged, but I was so upset I really thought I was big stuff.
         I mean I knew how to drive this tractor and I couldn't believe that I remembered wrong and I made that mistake and I first was scared because I thought I was in trouble but then when I realized I wasn't in trouble I was really, you know, I had lost a lot of confidence because I really thought I was big stuff.
         So I was like, "No more tractor.
         I don't want to have anything more to do with the tractor."
         Well my dad said, "Get back on it your going driving."
         So he made me get back on it because he wanted to teach me that we make mistakes and that you just have to get back on kind a like if you fall off a horse so that's my stories that I remember about driving.
         OK going back to the whole goat thing, I'll tell you another story about the goats.
         Uh the fence, um, we had this goat that we bottle fed, actually we bought, our dad bought the goat.
         Most of our goats were just regular farm goats, but this particular goat was registered.
         He was, you know, high class for a goat.
         He had papers and everything and we named him Remington.
         We named all are animals after TV characters.
         Like all are dogs all the goats were named after TV characters, so Remington was after, uh, I guess that show Remington I forget now but some character.
         Well he was our pet goat and we raised him.
         As a baby, we bottle fed him and we had to burn off his horns because if they grow up with horns then they can be dangerous, so you burn them off when they're little.
         We did that and we played with him basically like he was a dog because he was our little baby.
         He grew up, um, to be a very, um, close animal to us, but because we played with him so much he really thought that he was part of the family and he belonged really wherever we were.
         We'd let him in the house and, you know, take him in the car, take him in the truck, or just do whatever.
         So one day we were, uh, where, we were somewhere in the house, and, like I said, we had this electric fence and the electric fence works only so long until the goats figure out how to get out a of it or decide that they want out, so they'll, you know, endure the few seconds of shock.
         So yeah, Remington got out he didn't think he belonged in the fence anyway with the other goats so he'd gotten out and, uh, we look outside our house and we had a carport and, um, the storm door was open and the screen, and we look out and yeah he's on to a, the car, him standing on top of the car.
         That was when, I think, we decided we needed to set some more boundaries.
         So Remington, um, quickly had to learn some lessons.
         OK I'll tell ya another story about my dad because my dad grew up in basically the same area we did, um real country, and he was the youngest of 11 kids.
         Yeah, um, I'm sure he was an accident, um, and you can tell by his name.
         He kind of got the last of the pick, Homer Stobo.
         Yeah, well, um, well, was like I said, the youngest, so his parents by the time they had him were quite older and I don't think they paid him too much attention or maybe as his older siblings had to, um, have most of the part in his raising or upbringing that I think he was kind a left to do his own thing for quite a while.
         So he was quite rambunctious, so he used to always tell us stories about things he did as a kid.
         First of all, even though he was capable of, uh, going to school and doing his schoolwork, he chose not to and he would always, um, what you call play hooky, and on those days when we wouldn't go to school he would always come up with some kind of tricks, and one of the things I remember him saying that he did and actually since the time this time I had other people confirm that, uh, this is true that he would take a pocketbook, one of his mom's pocketbooks, and empty it out and tie it a string to the handle and he'd put it in the middle of the road and he and his buddy would let the string be long enough to where they could hide in the bushes and still have the string attached and then they'd wait for a car to drive by and there would always be a car to come by because, of course, this was in the country.
         And a car comes by and sees see a pocketbook they think, you know, we're going to pick this up and do one of two things.
         Their going to either take it, which what's more likely is that they're going to look because everybody knows everybody so they pick it up, or they get out of their car and they go to pick it up.
         Of course, as soon as they pick it up my dad and his friend just would jerk that pocketbook.
         Well you would think they'll just jerk it away and laugh.
         Well they decided that that wasn't fun enough so they would jerk it a little bit and make it seem like it was the wind, or just do it a little bit where they weren't, maybe the person wasn't quite sure if it really moved or not, or that maybe they accidentally kicked it and they'd do that a couple a times and then they would have basically be teasing the person along until the person just had thought they were going crazy.
         And then, uh, they finally realized what was going on and my dad and his friend would run and they would just run and run and run.
         And he would do all kinds of little tricks when he was out a school but, um, as it turns out he, um, he was quite into trouble his grades didn't quite make it.
         He made a D in PE, a D in, um, gym.
         Yeah he, he wasn't quite fond of school and he dropped out in May of his senior year, so although he later in life became successful and owned his own company, he just didn't, and I guess, and neither did his parents think school was that important so his, his stories they always told us didn't involve growing up and going to school and doing well and behaving they were always mischievous.
      
   

   
   
      
         I'm being interviewed by Umar Rashid.
         I was born in NY, but my ethnicity is Egyptian male, and I'm a student going to college, and Umar wanted me to talk about stories of culture and childhood.
         Well, my dad has told me about stories about when he came, when he came, just to go, back and see Egypt for after coming back for so many years and even be before he left Egypt about the quote unquote "hicks."
         They're not necessarily hicks they're just people who really didn't know any better.
         A lot of farmers, a lot of people who never experienced electricity, um, went to school and so they never knew things like the earth rotated.
         My, uh, dad was telling me a story about when he rode on the train this one time, and he was sitting next to this guy who was all giddy and all excited, and, um, he was telling my dad, "Do you think we're moving?"
         And my dad said, "Of course, yeah."
         And the guy replied, "Well no we're not moving, see?
         The earth rotates and we're just staying still.
         So that as the earth is rotating and we're staying still, we're moving from one point to the other."
         And that was one of the examples he told of how much education was important when he tried to explain things to me.
         Things like that.
         It was not that it was his fault.
         It was just that he didn't know any better and that was how people were like in Egypt, those poor people.
         And in Egypt there was no real middle class.
         You were either extremely poor or you were extremely wealthy.
         There was very little so-called middle class people.
         Then, of course, as time went on, he started talking to me about dating.
         And, of course, you know, dating was a cool thing if you were smart about it.
         When he was in Egypt early on in this time the people's of the, uh, the parents of the, their parents were really strict on, you know, should, well, boys and girls date.
         And the answer to a lot of those people was not a chance in hell.
         If you wanted to date a girl you would have had to take them outside the city because a lot of their parents, their fathers, or even their brothers, may either kill you or beat you up or force you to marry her.
         Of course neither was a, uh, option.
         He just wanted to, you know, enjoy a good time with a woman, not necessarily, you know, anything intimate but have a good conversation with a woman, and that was heavily frowned upon in the Middle East.
         Another thing that happened would be told me about, um, was in Egypt, you know, stories of women cheating on their husbands.
         In the culture of Egypt, if you were a Muslim when a, uh, if you were a woman and a girlfriend were to come over, the man would even leave the room or even leave the house because if there wasn't a man accompanying her, of course the man could not converse with her because of, you know, the temptation of whatever.
         And when this, when a woman would come over, it may or may not be a woman because this person has left the room.
         The, uh, my dad would tell me stories of people he knew who would, uh, dress up in women's clothing, with the full, you know, coverings and walk in and uh have sex with these men's wives and walk out.
      
      
         Do you remember anything specifically Joe?
      
      
         Well he wouldn't give me any specific names because, obviously I wouldn't know who these people were, but, uh, he would tell me stories like that.
         He also told me stories about how men and women went to the movies.
      
      
         Uh-huh.
      
      
         They would go into separate doors.
         The men would drop off the women in there from their cars, they would go and park and they would eventually walk together, and, of course, the women would walk behind the man.
         Now when they were to go pick up, you know, at the end of the night, the, uh, women would stand in the corner and the man would go get the cars.
         And the men really pretty much had no idea who their wives were because they were covered up.
      
      
         
            
         
      
      
         Basically whoever opened the door, that was their wife
         and that's when they drove off.
         And uh, it was kind of rather interesting.
         The differences in a culture in the Middle East.
         Of course, women you know would have to walk behind the man.
         In the Muslim world not necessarily in the cultural world, not necessarily a cultural, not necessarily Christian --
      
      
         I'm sorry Joe.
         How old were you when you started hearing these stories?
      
      
         Uh I don't know.
         I think it was about, well the whole dating thing was around 13, 14 so --
      
      
         Do you remember any from when you were around six or seven?
      
      
         Six or seven?
         Well that was the hick thing.
      
      
         Oh OK, OK.
         Sorry.
         
      
      
         Yeah I'm sorry Umar was not paying, he had left the room so I could continue telling the story just so you guys don't know.
         Now he came back so he's a little out of touch.
         Um, now we're going to go onto education.
         And, of course, my dad was, was very strict on education and education was very important for anybody in the Middle East, and of course nowadays anybody in the United States.
         You had to know your education.
         You had to go to school.
         My dad told me a lot of times when he was a TA in college he had to proctor an exam.
         And a--
      
      
         Sorry Joe.
         How old were you when you heard this?
      
      
         Tst, tst, tst.
         Well 11.
         Yeah.
         And, um, he told me the story of this woman he would not let take this exam because he didn't know if the person taking that exam was that women.
         You know, I mean because she would, it was very unusual that she would cover up more than was usual.
         And he wasn't sure if that was the person taking the exam.
         And so there was a whole commotion about it.
         The, uh, professor had to come in and the professor had to get a female to come in have her take a look at her and check her ID because in Egypt women didn't have ID's.
         You couldn't just, you know, here's an idea of a woman with a face covering, you know.
         That didn't really work in Egypt.
         And uh, of course education was very important.
         He told me stories of the educational system in Egypt.
         How very different it was in Egypt as opposed to here.
         One test determines whether what college you got to what profession you go into.
         There are two exams that you will take in your life in your junior year of high school and then in your senior year.
         The junior year is pretty much a practice exam and it's not based upon how well you do.
         It's based upon how well you do overall, everybody else.
         And what percentile you get determines what college you can get into because college in Egypt is free.
         So, uh, last time I heard, if you made a 94 or higher on a 100 point, this 100 point exam, you can go into an engineering school.
         But you couldn't go anything higher than that, not doctorate.
         You had to make a 97 to go into a doctorate school.
         Now, of course, you can go below that if you want another profession, but that's why education was very important in Egypt.
         Because what you know you had to do.
         In Egypt everyone competed against each other for the better grade, so everyone studied on their own, and, um, and definitely had different study practices and mental practices towards education in the Middle East.
         You know, stuff the teacher was well respected in the Middle East as opposed to here.
         You know, in the high school, where they can pretty much considered the baby sitter.
         This was no joke.
         You could be asked to leave in Egypt if you were told to.
         And those are the stories about education, women cheating dating, and the quote-unquote hicks.
         Thank you.
         Have a good day.
      
   
